area  handbook  series 

Uruguay 

a  country  study 


Uruguay 

a  country  study 


Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 


Rex  A.  Hudson  and 
Sandra  W.  Meditz 
Research  Completed 


On  the  cover:  A  gaucho  displays  an  ornamental  saddle  and 
harness  at  a  festival. 


Second  Edition,  First  Printing,  1992. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Uruguay  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of 
Congress  ;  edited  by  Rex  A.  Hudson  and  Sandra  W.  Meditz.  — 
2nd  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294)  (DA 
pam  ;  550-97) 

"Supersedes  the  1971  edition  of  Area  handbook  for  Uruguay 
written  by  Thomas  E.  Weil,  et  al." — T.p.  verso. 

"Research  completed  December  1990." 

Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  249-272)  and  index. 

ISBN  0-8444-0737-2 
 Copy  3.  Z663.275  .  U78  1992 

1.  Uruguay.    I.  Hudson,  Rex  A.,  1947-    .  II.  Meditz,  Sandra 
W.,  1950-    .       III.  Library  of  Congress.  Federal  Research  Di- 
vision. IV.  Area  handbook  for  Uruguay.  V.  Series.  VI.  Series: 
DA  pam  ;  550-97. 
F2708.U855       1992  92-6702 
989.5— dc20  CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 
DA  Pam  550-97 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared  by 
the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress  under 
the  Country  Studies/ Area  Handbook  Program  sponsored  by  the 
Department  of  the  Army.  The  last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other 
published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  would  like  to  acknowledge  the  contributions  of 
Thomas  E.  Weil,  Jan  Knippers  Black,  Kenneth  W.  Martindale, 
David  S.  McMorris,  Sally  Engle  Merry,  and  Frederick  P.  Munson, 
who  wrote  the  1971  first  edition  of  Uruguay:  A  Country  Study.  The 
present  volume  incorporates  portions  of  their  work. 

The  authors  are  grateful  to  individuals  in  various  agencies  of 
the  United  States  government,  private  institutions,  and  Uruguayan 
diplomatic  offices,  particularly  the  Uruguayan  Mission  to  the 
Organization  of  American  States,  who  gave  their  time,  research 
materials,  and  special  knowledge  to  provide  information  and  per- 
spective. These  individuals  include  Ralph  K.  Benesch,  who  over- 
sees the  Country  Studies/Area  Handbook  Program  for  the 
Department  of  the  Army.  None  of  these  individuals,  however,  is 
in  any  way  responsible  for  the  work  of  the  authors. 

The  authors  also  would  like  to  thank  those  who  contributed  di- 
rectly to  the  preparation  of  the  manuscript.  These  include  Lynne 
Shaner,  who  edited  the  chapters;  Marilyn  L.  Majeska,  who 
managed  the  editing;  Andrea  T.  Merrill,  who  performed  the  final 
prepublication  editorial  review  and  managed  production;  Barbara 
Edgerton,  Janie  L.  Gilchrist,  and  Izella  Watson,  who  did  the  word 
processing;  and  Tim  L.  Merrill,  who  provided  geographical  as- 
sistance. In  addition,  Joan  C.  Cook  compiled  the  index,  and 
Malinda  B.  Neale  and  Linda  Peterson  of  the  Library  of  Congress 
Printing  and  Processing  Section  performed  the  phototypesetting, 
under  the  supervision  of  Peggy  Pixley. 

David  P.  Cabitto,  assisted  by  Sandra  K.  Ferrell  and  Kimberly  A. 
Lord,  provided  invaluable  graphics  support.  Sandra  K.  Ferrell  pre- 
pared the  ranks  and  insignia  charts;  Kimberly  A.  Lord  prepared 
the  illustrations  and  all  the  maps  except  for  the  topography  and 
drainage  map,  which  was  prepared  by  Harriett  R.  Blood. 

Finally,  the  authors  acknowledge  the  generosity  of  the  individuals 
and  the  public  and  private  agencies  who  allowed  their  photographs 
to  be  used  in  this  study. 


v 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword    iii 

Acknowledgments    v 

Preface      xiii 

Country  Profile     XV 

Introduction     xxiii 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    1 

Raul  Jacob  and  Martin  Weinstein 

FROM  PRE-COLUMBIAN  TIMES  TO  THE 

CONQUEST   5 

THE  STRUGGLE  FOR  INDEPENDENCE,  1811-30   8 

Artigas's  Revolution,  1811-20   8 

From  Insurrection  to  State  Organization,  1820-30   ...  11 

BEGINNINGS  OF  INDEPENDENT  LIFE,  1830-52    11 

The  First  Presidents,  1830-38    11 

The  Great  War,  1843-52    13 

THE  STRUGGLE  FOR  SURVIVAL,  1852-75    14 

Intervention  by  Neighboring  Countries   14 

Evolution  of  the  Economy  and  Society    15 

Caudillos  and  Political  Stability   16 

MODERN  URUGUAY,  1875-1903    17 

Militarism,  1875-90    17 

The  Return  of  Civilians    19 

THE  NEW  COUNTRY,  1903-33    21 

Batlle  y  Ordonez  and  the  Modern  State    21 

The  Consolidation  of  Political  Democracy   26 

THE  CONSERVATIVE  ADJUSTMENT,  1931-43    27 

The  Terra  Era,  1931-38    27 

Baldomir  and  the  End  of  Dictatorship   31 

"THERE'S  NO  PLACE  LIKE  URUGUAY,"  1943-58    33 

The  Administration  of  Amezaga,  1943-47    33 

Neo-Batllism,  1947-51    34 

Decline  of  the  Economy  and  the  Colorado  Party, 

1951-58    36 

ECONOMIC  CRISIS  AND  DECLINE    37 

The  Blanco  Administrations,  1959-67    37 

Pachequism,  1967-72    39 


vii 


The  Emergence  of  Militarism,  1972-73    41 

THE  MILITARY  GOVERNMENT,  1973-85    42 

The  New  Situation,  1973-80    42 

The  Military's  Economic  Record    44 

The  Opposition  and  the  Reemergence  of  Parties, 

1980-84    46 

The  Transition  to  Democracy,  1984-85    47 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment   49 

Charles  Guy  Gillespie 

GEOGRAPHY    52 

Topography  and  Hydrography    52 

Climate    55 

Land  Use  and  Settlement  Patterns    56 

POPULATION   62 

Historical  Patterns  of  Settlement    63 

Contemporary  Ethnic  Composition    64 

Fertility,  Mortality,  and  Population  Growth    65 

Urbanization    66 

Migration    67 

Emigration    68 

SOCIAL  CLASSES   69 

The  Ranching  Elite    70 

Business  Elites   71 

Political  Elites    71 

The  Middle  Class    72 

Small  Farmers  and  Rural  Workers    74 

Blue-Collar  Workers    74 

The  Urban  Poor    76 

INCOME  DISTRIBUTION  AND  LIVING 

STANDARDS    76 

FAMILY  LIFE    77 

HEALTH  AND  WELFARE   80 

Infant  Mortality  and  Life  Expectancy    82 

State  and  Private  Health  Care    83 

Social  Security  Pensions    84 

EDUCATION    86 

The  Education  System   86 

Historical  Origins  and  Evolution  of  Education    88 

Educational  Reforms  under  Military  Rule, 

1973-85    89 

Education  under  the  Colorados,  1985-88    89 

RELIGION    91 


viii 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy    95 

Brian  D.  McFeeters 

GROWTH  AND  STRUCTURE  OF  THE 

ECONOMY   99 

Colonial  Period    100 

Postindependence  Era    101 

The  Export  Model   101 

Batllism    103 

Stagnation    105 

Restructuring  under  the  Military  Regime, 

1973-85    107 

The  Sanguinetti  Government    109 

ECONOMIC  POLICY    Ill 

Fiscal  Policy    112 

Monetary  and  Exchange-Rate  Policy    113 

LABOR   114 

The  Labor  Movement    115 

Government  Policy    117 

AGRICULTURE    118 

Agricultural  Stagnation    118 

Land  Use  and  Tenure   119 

Livestock  Ranching   120 

Crop  Production    123 

Fishing    125 

Forestry    126 

INDUSTRY    127 

Background  of  Industrial  Development    128 

Autonomous  Entities    129 

Private  Firms   130 

Construction    130 

Mining    131 

Energy   131 

SERVICES    132 

Banking  and  Financial  Services   134 

Transportation  and  Communications    136 

Tourism   140 

EXTERNAL  SECTOR   141 

Foreign  Debt    142 

Trade    144 

Balance  of  Payments    145 

Economic  Integration    146 

Free-Trade  Zones    147 


ix 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics   149 

Rex  A.  Hudson 

CONSTITUTIONAL  BACKGROUND    152 

GOVERNMENTAL  STRUCTURE    159 

The  Executive    159 

The  Legislature    162 

The  Judiciary    165 

Public  Administration    168 

Local  Government   .  169 

The  Electoral  Process    170 

POLITICAL  DYNAMICS    172 

Political  Parties    172 

Democratic  Consolidation,  1985-90    179 

Political  Forces  and  Interest  Groups    183 

FOREIGN  RELATIONS    191 

Foreign  Relations  under  Democratic  Rule, 

1985-90    192 

Foreign  Policy  in  1990    197 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    201 

Melinda  Wheeler  Cooke 

THE  ORIGIN  AND  DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE 

ARMED  FORCES    204 

Evolution  of  the  Army   204 

Development  of  the  Navy    208 

Creation  of  an  Independent  Air  Force    209 

THE  GROWTH  OF  MILITARY  INVOLVEMENT 

IN  POLITICS    210 

THE  ARMED  FORCES  IN  THE  NATIONAL  LIFE    213 

Manpower   213 

Military  Justice    214 

Defense  Spending    215 

ARMED  FORCES  ORGANIZATION,  TRAINING, 

AND  EQUIPMENT    216 

Army   218 

Navy   220 

Air  Force   221 

Uniforms,  Ranks,  and  Insignia   221 

PUBLIC  ORDER  AND  INTERNAL  SECURITY    224 

Crime   226 

The  National  Police   226 

The  Criminal  Justice  System   229 

Appendix.  Tables   233 


X 


Bibliography    249 

Glossary    273 

Index    277 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Uruguay,  1990    xxii 

2  Three  South  American  Viceroyalties,  ca.  1800    10 

3  Topography  and  Drainage    54 

4  Average  Population  Density  by  Department,  1985    58 

5  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1985    64 

6  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  1988    110 

7  Employment  by  Sector,  1988    114 

8  Transportation  System,  1990    138 

9  Governmental  Structure,  1990    160 

10  Officer  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1990    222 

11  Enlisted  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1990    223 


xi 


Preface 


Like  its  predecessor,  this  study  is  an  attempt  to  examine  objec- 
tively and  concisely  the  dominant  historical,  social,  economic,  po- 
litical, and  military  aspects  of  contemporary  Uruguay.  Sources  of 
information  included  scholarly  books,  journals,  monographs,  official 
reports  of  governments  and  international  organizations,  and  numer- 
ous periodicals.  Chapter  bibliographies  appear  at  the  end  of  the 
book;  brief  comments  on  sources  recommended  for  further  read- 
ing appear  at  the  end  of  each  chapter.  To  the  extent  possible,  place- 
names  follow  the  system  adopted  by  the  United  States  Board  on 
Geographic  Names.  Measurements  are  given  in  the  metric  sys- 
tem; a  conversion  table  is  provided  to  assist  readers  unfamiliar  with 
metric  measurements  (see  table  1,  Appendix).  A  glossary  is  also 
included. 

Although  there  are  numerous  variations,  Spanish  surnames 
generally  are  composed  of  both  the  father's  and  the  mother's  fam- 
ily names,  in  that  order.  In  the  instance  of  Jose  Batlle  y  Ordonez, 
for  example,  Batlle  is  his  patronymic,  and  Ordonez  is  his  mother's 
maiden  name.  In  informal  use,  the  matronymic  is  often  dropped, 
a  practice  that  has  usually  been  followed  in  this  book,  except  in 
cases  where  the  individual  could  easily  be  confused  with  a  relative. 

The  body  of  the  text  reflects  information  available  as  of  Decem- 
ber 1990.  Certain  other  portions  of  the  text,  however,  have  been 
updated.  The  Introduction  discusses  significant  events  that  have 
occurred  since  the  completion  of  research;  the  Country  Profile  in- 
cludes updated  information  as  available;  and  the  Bibliography  lists 
recently  published  sources  thought  to  be  particularly  helpful  to  the 
reader. 


Xlll 


Country  Profile 


Country 

Formal  Name:  Oriental  Republic  of  Uruguay  (Republica  Orien- 
tal del  Uruguay). 

Short  Form:  Uruguay. 

Term  for  Citizens:  Uruguayan(s). 

Capital:  Montevideo. 

Date  of  Independence:  August  27,  1828.  August  25  celebrated 
as  a  national  holiday  (Independence  Day). 

NOTE — The  Country  Profile  contains  updated  information  as  available. 


xv 


Geography 

Size:  176,220  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Country  consists  mostly  (75  percent)  of  gently  roll- 
ing plateau,  interrupted  at  two  points  by  low  hilly  ridges  {cuchillas). 
Remainder  fertile  coastal  lowlands,  including  narrow  coastal  plain — 
sandy  and  marshy,  occasionally  broken  by  lagoons — and  somewhat 
broader  littorals  of  Rio  de  la  Plata  and  Rio  Uruguay. 

Climate:  Country  situated  in  temperate  zone  (only  Latin  Ameri- 
can country  lying  wholly  outside  tropics).  Climate  mild  and  fairly 
uniform  nationwide,  although  northwestern  area  farther  inland  has 
warmer  summers  and  drier  winters  than  rest  of  country.  Seasonal 
variations  pronounced,  but  freezing  temperatures  almost  unknown. 
High  humidity,  high  winds,  and  fog  common.  Winter  warm  spells 
can  be  abruptly  broken  by  a  strong  pampero,  a  chilly  and  occasion- 
ally violent  wind  from  Argentine  pampas. 

Society 

Population:  In  1991  estimated  at  3.1  million;  annual  rate  of  growth 
averaged  0.7  percent  during  1981-88  period  but  fell  to  0.6  per- 
cent in  1990-91.  Relatively  low  birth  rate  (17  per  1,000  popula- 
tion in  1991).  According  to  1985  census,  87  percent  of  population 
lived  in  urban  areas,  Latin  America's  highest  percentage. 

Literacy  and  Education:  In  1990  literacy  rate  96  percent  (highest 
in  Latin  America).  System  of  universal,  free,  and  secular  educa- 
tion required  total  of  nine  years  of  compulsory  school  attendance, 
from  ages  six  to  fourteen.  By  1985  an  estimated  70  percent  of 
secondary  school-age  children  enrolled  in  secondary  school  (also 
highest  rate  in  Latin  America).  Despite  inadequate  teaching  re- 
sources, quality  of  education  generally  high. 

Health:  In  1984  total  health  care  spending  represented  8.1  percent 
of  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary).  In  1985  number 
of  inhabitants  per  physician  466  (proportion  similar  to  developed 
countries).  In  1987  Montevideo  had  over  sixty  public  health  facili- 
ties, including  seven  major  public  hospitals.  Total  mortality  rate  just 
below  10  per  1,000  population  in  1980s.  In  1990  infant  mortality 
22  deaths  per  1,000  population.  Average  life  expectancy  at  birth 
in  1991  sixty-nine  years  for  men  and  seventy-six  years  for  women. 

Language:  Spanish. 

Ethnic  Groups:  Largely  homogeneous  society.  In  1990  about  88 
percent  of  population  white  and  of  European  descent;  8  percent 
mestizo;  and  4  percent  black. 


xvi 


Religion:  In  1990  about  66  percent  were  professed  Roman  Catho- 
lics; 2  percent  Protestants;  and  2  percent  Jews.  Remainder  non- 
professing  or  other  (less  than  half  of  adult  population  attended 
church  regularly). 

Economy 

Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP):  Approximately  US$9.2  billion 
in  1990,  or  US$2,970  per  capita,  making  it  one  of  highest-income 
countries  in  Latin  America.  As  result  of  severe  recession,  real  GDP 
declined  by  almost  17  percent  during  1981-84  but  increased  after 
1985.  Led  by  growth  in  agriculture  and  fishing  sectors,  GDP  grew 
by  6.6  percent  in  1986  and  4.9  percent  in  1987  but  slowed  to  0.5 
percent  in  1988,  1.5  percent  in  1989,  and  0.9  percent  in  1990. 

Agriculture:  Self-sufficient  in  most  basic  foodstuffs.  About  90  per- 
cent of  country,  including  8  percent  arable  land,  can  be  used  for 
some  kind  of  agriculture,  mainly  for  extensive  livestock  grazing, 
wheat,  rice,  corn,  and  sorghum.  In  1988  agricultural  activity,  in- 
cluding fishing,  direcdy  generated  13  percent  of  GDP  and  provided 
over  half  of  value  of  exports.  Although  sector's  growth  rate  in  1989 
was  low  (1  percent),  its  output  increased  an  estimated  3.5  percent 
in  1990. 

Industry:  Accounted  for  33  percent  of  GDP  in  1988.  Industrial 
sector  geared  mostly  to  small  domestic  market.  Industries  included 
meat  processing,  wool  and  hides,  sugar,  textiles,  footwear,  leather 
apparel,  tires,  cement,  fishing,  petroleum  refining,  and  wine  mak- 
ing. Industrial  production  growth  rate  in  1988  about  -2.9  percent. 

Mining  and  Energy:  Exports  granite  and  marble.  Semiprecious 
stones  also  have  been  found  in  quantity.  Primary  sources  of  energy 
hydroelectricity  and  imported  petroleum  (mostly  crude  oil). 

Services:  Accounted  for  42  percent  of  GDP  in  1988,  including  6 
percent  for  transportation,  storage,  and  communications  and  15 
percent  for  banking  and  commerce. 

Currency  and  Exchange  Rate:  Uruguayan  new  peso.  In  1990 
average  exchange  rate  was  US$1  =  N$Url ,  171 .  On  December  31 , 
1990,  buying  and  selling  interbank  rates  were  N$Url,573  and 
N$Url,594,  respectively,  per  US$1.  On  March  2,  1992,  average 
exchange  rate  was  US$1  =  N$Ur2,674. 

Trade:  Exports  wool,  meat,  hides,  manufactured  goods,  and  rice 
(total  about  US$1.6  billion  in  1989).  Imports  fuels  and  lubri- 
cants, metals,  machinery,  transportation  equipment,  and  industrial 


xvii 


chemicals  (total  about  US$1 . 1  billion  in  1989).  Main  export  mar- 
kets and  sources  of  imports  Brazil,  Argentina,  United  States,  and 
European  Community. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Trade  balance  positive  and  steadily  improv- 
ing during  most  of  1980s.  Current  account  balance  negative  until 
mid-1980s,  owing  to  burden  of  debt  service  (reduced  from  US$613 
million  in  1988  to  US$449  million  in  1989).  Foreign  debt  to  United 
States  in  1989  about  US$6.2  billion  of  total  US$6.7  billion  foreign 
debt  (one  of  developing  world's  highest  per  capita).  Capital  account 
balance  positive  for  most  of  1980s. 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Fiscal  Policy:  Stabilization  plan  of  Julio  Maria  Sanguinetti  (presi- 
dent, 1985-90) — designed  to  reduce  deficit  and  inflation  and  im- 
prove balance  of  payments — had  mixed  results.  Public-sector  deficit 
declined,  but  inflation  continued  unabated,  reaching  at  least  85 
percent  by  1989,  owing  to  monetary  and  exchange-rate  policies. 
Luis  Alberto  Lacalle  de  Herrera  (president,  1990-)  attempted  to 
further  cut  fiscal  deficit  and  tighten  monetary  policy  by  introduc- 
ing new  taxes  on  wages  and  increasing  value-added  tax  (VAT — 
see  Glossary)  rate,  gasoline  prices,  and  public- sector  tariffs. 
Nevertheless,  inflation  rose  to  129  percent  in  1990  but  then  dropped 
to  106  percent  in  1991. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Roads:  One  of  best  highway  systems  in  Latin  America.  In  1989 
about  50,000  kilometers  total,  including  6,800  kilometers  paved 
roads,  3,000  kilometers  gravel  roads,  and  over  40,200  kilometers 
dirt  roads. 

Railroads:  One  of  best  rail  systems  in  Latin  America  (but  pas- 
senger service  discontinued  in  1988  because  of  declining  ridership). 
In  1989  about  3,000  kilometers  total,  all  1.435-meter  standard  gauge 
and  government  owned. 

Ports:  Montevideo,  Punta  del  Este,  Colonia,  Fray  Bentos,  Pay- 
sandu,  and  Salto  principal  ports. 

Airports:  Two  international  airports  (Montevideo  and  Punte  del 
Este)  and  fourteen  other  primarily  commercial  airports  with 
permanent- surface  runways. 

Telecommunications:  Most  modern  facilities  concentrated  in 
Montevideo.  New  nationwide  radio-relay  network.  Total  telephones 
in  1990  over  345,000  (highest  per  capita  in  South  America).  In 


xvin 


1990  ninety-nine  AM  (ten  of  them  shortwave)  radio  stations, 
twenty- six  television  stations,  and  two  satellite  earth  stations. 

Government  and  Politics 

Government:  Republic  with  three  separate  branches  of  govern- 
ment. Constitution  of  1967  institutionalized  strong  presidency,  sub- 
ject to  legislative  and  judicial  checks.  Executive  power  exercised 
by  president  (elected  for  five-year  term  by  simple  majority  of  the 
people  through  unique  voting  system),  vice  president  (who  served 
as  president  of  bicameral  General  Assembly),  and  Council  of 
Ministers.  General  Assembly  consisted  of  thirty-member  Senate 
and  ninety-nine-member  Chamber  of  Representatives;  members 
of  both  chambers  elected  to  five-year  terms  through  proportional 
representation  system.  Independent  judicial  branch  headed  by 
Supreme  Court  of  Justice.  Country's  administrative  subdivisions 
consisted  of  nineteen  departments,  each  headed  by  a  governor, 
subordinate  to  central  government  and  responsible  for  local  ad- 
ministration. Unusual  electoral  system  combined  primaries  and 
a  general  election  in  one  event  characterized  by  a  4 'double  simul- 
taneous vote,"  allowing  each  party's  factions  to  run  rival  lists  of 
candidates. 

Politics:  Civilian  government  restored  in  1985  after  twelve  years 
of  military  rule.  Lacalle  of  conservative  National  Party  (Partido 
Nacional,  usually  referred  to  as  Blancos) — elected  president  in 
November  1989  in  country's  first  free  election  since  1971 — suc- 
ceeded Sanguinetti  of  liberal  Colorado  Party  (Partido  Colorado) 
on  March  1,  1990.  Two-party  system  of  these  rival  parties  had 
dominated  since  nineteenth  century  but  was  dealt  strong  challenge 
in  November  1989  elections  by  win  of  mayorship  of  Montevideo 
by  Broad  Front  (Frente  Amplio),  a  leftist  coalition.  Other  parties 
in  1989  elections  included  various  factions  of  Colorado  Party  and 
National  Party  and  new  left-of-center,  social  democratic  coalition, 
New  Sector  (Nuevo  Espacio). 

International  Relations:  Guided  historically  by  principles  of  non- 
intervention, respect  for  national  sovereignty,  and  reliance  on  rule 
of  law  to  settle  disputes.  Traditionally  an  active  participant  in  inter- 
national and  regional  organizations.  During  1973-85  period  of  mili- 
tary rule,  "military  diplomacy"  focused  on  national  and  regional 
subversion  and  geopolitical  concerns.  Sanguinetti  renewed  rela- 
tions with  Cuba,  Nicaragua,  and  China  and  strengthened  relations 
with  Soviet  Union.  Excellent  bilateral  relations  with  United  States 
during  1985-90  period.  Lacalle  continued  traditional  guidelines 


xix 


of  Uruguayan  foreign  policy  and  placed  emphasis  on  regional  in- 
tegration, especially  with  Argentina  and  Brazil.  Although  some- 
what ambivalent  toward  United  States  policy  on  drug  trafficking, 
Lacalle  strongly  endorsed  President  George  H.W.  Bush's  free- trade 
Enterprise  for  the  Americas  Initiative  of  June  1990. 

International  Agreements  and  Memberships:  Member  of  at  least 
thirty- two  international  organizations,  including  Organization  of 
American  States,  United  Nations  and  most  of  its  specialized  agen- 
cies, World  Bank  (see  Glossary),  International  Monetary  Fund 
(IMF — see  Glossary),  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade, 
International  Telecommunications  Satellite  Organization,  Latin 
American  Economic  System,  and  Latin  American  Integration  As- 
sociation. Signatory  of  Inter- American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal  As- 
sistance (Rio  Treaty),  Treaty  for  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  in  Latin  America  (Tlatelolco  Treaty),  and  Rio  de  la  Plata 
Basin  Treaty. 

National  Security 

Armed  Forces:  Total  strength  in  1991  estimated  at  22,900:  army, 
16,000;  navy,  3,500;  and  air  force,  3,400. 

Organization:  Country  divided  into  four  military  regions  head- 
quartered in  Montevideo  (I),  San  Jose  (II),  Paso  de  los  Toros  (III), 
and  Maldonado  (IV).  Each  military  region  headquarters  hosted 
one  of  four  administrative  army  corps  headquarters.  Montevideo's 
First  Corps  traditionally  most  powerful  of  army's  main  command 
elements.  Army  had  one  independent  infantry  brigade,  fifteen  in- 
fantry battalions,  six  engineer  battalions,  six  artillery  battalions, 
and  ten  cavalry  battalions.  Navy  organized  into  one  fleet  command 
divided  into  one  escort  division  and  one  patrol  division.  Navy  also 
commanded  naval  air,  coast  guard,  marines,  and  National  Mari- 
time Police.  Air  force  organized  into  tactical,  training,  and  materiel 
commands,  principally  Tactical  Air  Command. 

Equipment:  Services  had  mosdy  obsolete  United  States  equipment 
in  1991.  Army  had  sixty-seven  United  States-made  light  tanks;  ar- 
mored vehicles  from  Belgium,  Brazil,  United  States,  and  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany);  and  Swedish-,  Argentine-, 
and  United  States-made  artillery  pieces.  Navy's  former  United 
States  equipment  included  one  frigate,  one  destroyer  escort,  one  cor- 
vette, and  two  large  patrol  craft.  French-made  equipment  included 
three  frigates  and  three  large  patrol  craft.  Fleet  included  one 
minesweeper,  five  amphibious  landing  craft,  and  one  training  ves- 
sel. Air  force  had  thirty-three  combat  aircraft  (seven  of  them  trainers). 


xx 


Police:  Total  strength  in  1990  estimated  at  17,500.  About  40  per- 
cent of  police  assigned  to  urban  areas  (with  at  least  20  percent  in 
Montevideo).  National  Police  subordinate  to  Ministry  of  the 
Interior  and  organized  into  four  operating  agencies:  Montevideo 
Police,  Interior  Police,  National  Traffic  Police,  and  National  Corps 
of  Firemen.  Two  police  paramilitary  organizations — Republican 
Guard  and  Metropolitan  Guard — assigned  to  capital  area  for 
ceremonial  and  guard  or  riot-control  duties,  respectively. 


xxi 


30 


J 


ARGENTINA;  ! 


Artigasg, 


BRAZIL 


ART  I  GAS 


V. 


T 

 54  

  International  boundary 

  Department  boundary 

®  National  capital 

®  Department  capital 


30- 


25    50  Kilometers 


j  Salto 

J 


SALTO 


■jim  Rivera  ^ 

fx  ^ 
\  RIVERA 


0  25         50  Miles 

'Claimed  by  Argentina  and  Uruguay 


V 


\  Tacuarembo 


'  ^/l 


I 


BRAZIL 


PAYSANDU 


( 


32 


^_  Paysandu 


/     TACUAREMBO  /"" 

/ 


Fray 


Umbatse  M 


Melo 


RIO  NEGRO 

j  Mercedes 
®  f  k-  Durazno 

Trinidad^rS^\^.s  ' 

SORIANO    •>)  ® 


CERRO  LARGO 


^.f  ^  


DURAZNO 


TREINTA  Y  TRES, 


Jreinta  r-^\j 


r 


c 


v 


.FLORES^     FinR,nA    \  \ 

^  \      ^.j  FLOT/D^  Uavalleja  rocha 

\                       ?    '          '.  .Florida     /  rJ\                C)t  34- 

\l    COLON  I A     \,nco  9            f  *  • 

VX                ^  JOSE  \  .— t  )  ( 

\  \  Co/on/a     i       f           -          \  wW/naSy     j  | 

isia  Martin^X^ — ^n  J°seY  Canelones)  .s         •  » 

(*&tu&  ^-^s^v  \MALDONADO^  %fTL&m'<nC 

Montevideo  Maldonadcr  OC£%$l 

ARGENTINA 

§3  \  boundary  representation 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Uruguay,  1990 


xxii 


Introduction 


URUGUAY  USED  TO  BE  KNOWN  as  the  "Switzerland  of 
South  America,"  but  clearly  not  because  of  any  geographical 
similarity.  Although  it  is  the  second  smallest  republic  in  South 
America  (after  Suriname),  Uruguay  is  more  than  four  times  larger 
than  landlocked  Switzerland,  and  its  highest  peak  is  only  501  meters. 
Rather,  the  analogy  was  made  because  Uruguay  enjoyed  other 
Swiss-like  attributes.  It  was  a  peaceful,  conservative  country  with 
a  bountiful,  livestock-based  economy.  It  was  also  home  to  South 
America's  first  social  democracy;  a  cradle- to- grave  welfare  system; 
and  a  largely  urban,  homogeneous,  and  relatively  well-educated 
population.  A  political  slogan  of  the  1940s  proudly  boasted, 
"There's  no  place  like  Uruguay." 

Beginning  with  the  prolonged  stagnation  of  their  country's  indus- 
trial and  livestock  sectors  in  the  mid-1950s,  however,  Uruguayans 
began  losing  their  economic  well-being,  civility,  and  tranquillity. 
By  the  late  1960s,  Uruguay  was  suffering  from  high  inflation  and 
public  deficits  and  was  governed  by  an  authoritarian  president, 
instead  of  by  the  former  revolving  collegial  executive  (colegiado)  that 
had  been  modeled  on  the  Swiss  system  and  designed  to  avoid  a 
concentration  of  power.  In  1973  Uruguayans  also  lost  their  cher- 
ished freedom  and  their  democratic  system  when  the  country  was 
plunged  into  one  of  Latin  America's  most  repressive  military  dic- 
tatorships (1973-85).  The  country's  democratic  system  was  not  fully 
restored  until  1990. 

Having  fallen  far  behind  many  countries  economically,  Uru- 
guayans could  only  reminisce  about  their  former  welfare  state.  In 
a  discussion  of  Uruguay's  global  ranking,  the  late  political  scien- 
tist and  Uruguay  specialist  Charles  Guy  Gillespie  noted  that  "Uru- 
guayan society  in  1990  presented  a  rather  contradictory  picture 
of  advanced  social  indicators  and  declining  economic  status."  Since 
Gillespie's  research  was  completed,  Uruguay  has  risen  to  be  the 
highest  ranking  country  in  South  America  and  Central  America 
on  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme's  1991  Human 
Development  Index  (HDI),  a  measure  that  combines  per  capita 
gross  domestic  product  (GDP — see  Glossary)  with  such  factors  as 
longevity  and  access  to  education.  In  world  HDI  ranking,  however, 
Uruguay  slipped  from  twenty-ninth  place  in  1990  to  thirty-first  place 
in  the  1991  report. 

The  assumption  of  the  presidency  by  Luis  Alberto  Lacalle  de 
Herrera  in  1990  improved  the  country's  political  development  index 


xxiii 


by  marking  the  success  of  Uruguay's  five-year  transition  back  to 
democracy.  Undeterred  by  their  nation's  serious  economic 
problems,  tens  of  thousands  of  the  Uruguayans  who  had  fled  the 
country  during  the  military  regime  returned  home.  Instead  of  the 
old  Uruguay,  however,  they  found  their  traditionally  statist  soci- 
ety undergoing  privatization  and  sharp  cutbacks  in  social  services 
under  the  Lacalle  government's  plan  to  turn  the  nation  into  a  South 
American  ' *  Singapore . ' ' 

Yet,  unlike  the  Swiss,  for  whom  modernization  and  traditional- 
ism were  mutually  compatible,  Uruguayans  in  general  were  stub- 
bornly resistant  to  Lacalle 's  vision  of  a  free-market  economy,  which 
had  been  much  talked  about  during  the  previous  administration 
of  Julio  Maria  Sanguinetti  Cairolo  (1985-90),  and  to  changing  their 
old  ways,  which  still  included  horse-and-buggy  milk  deliveries  in 
Montevideo.  This  predilection  for  traditionalism  over  modernism 
was  explained  in  part  by  the  fact  that  Uruguay,  a  country  with 
a  low  birth  rate  and  long  life  expectancy,  had  Latin  America's  old- 
est population.  With  a  work  force  of  1 .4  million  in  1990,  Uruguay 
had  650,000  people  receiving  pensions.  Another  explanation  was 
a  general  uncertainty  as  to  whether  modernization  offered  a  bet- 
ter future.  As  Jorge  Batlle  Ibanez,  a  1989  presidential  candidate, 
explained  in  the  weekly  news  magazine  Busqueda: 

Uruguay  is  the  most  difficult  country  in  Latin  America  to  change 
because,  being  the  smallest  [sic]  country,  it  lacks  masses  that  could 
switch  rapidly  or  violently  from  one  side  to  the  other,  and  it  has 
a  relatively  prosperous  middle  class  that  feels  there  are  few  oppor- 
tunities for  easily  finding  another  destiny  without  losing  what  they 
already  have. 

Nevertheless,  the  new  destiny  as  a  regional  free- trade  and  finan- 
cial center  envisioned  for  the  nation  by  Lacalle  seemed  designed 
to  make  better  use  of  the  country's  existing  geographic  and  eco- 
nomic advantages,  as  well  as  its  historical  role  as  gatekeeper  to  the 
Rio  de  la  Plata  Basin  trade  region. 

Although  not  a  maritime  nation,  Uruguay  is  surrounded  on  three 
sides  by  water.  Three  rivers  (the  Rio  de  la  Plata,  one  of  the  widest 
rivers  in  the  world;  the  Rio  Uruguay;  and  the  Rio  Yaguaron),  a 
lake  (Laguna  Merin),  and  the  Atlantic  Ocean  border  the  country. 
The  main  port  and  capital  city  of  Montevideo,  founded  in  1726, 
is  situated  on  strategic  trade  routes. 

Even  the  name  of  Uruguay,  first  applied  to  the  Rio  Uruguay, 
has  river-related  origins.  Its  etymology  derives  from  either  urugua, 
a  Guarani  Indian  word  meaning  a  species  of  mussel,  thus  Rio 


xxiv 


Uruguay,  "the  river  of  shellfish";  or  the  Guaram  word  compo- 
nents uru  (a  kind  of  bird  that  lived  near  the  river);  gua  ("to  pro- 
ceed from");  and^>  ("water"). 

Uruguay  also  has  long  been  associated  with  cattle  and  sheep  and 
the  gauchos  who  have  herded  them,  as  well  as  with  verdant  grass- 
lands. The  country's  traditional  beef  and  wool  exports  have  been 
well  known  in  world  markets.  A  land  of  gentle  hills  and  rolling 
plateau  covered  by  tall  prairie  grass,  Uruguay  has  been  often 
referred  to  in  travel  books  as  "the  purple  land"  since  the  publica- 
tion in  1885  of  a  book  by  British  naturalist  and  travel  writer  W.H. 
Hudson.  In  addition  to  the  purple  verbena  wildflowers  (margari- 
tas)  that  populate  the  grasslands  from  December  through  March, 
the  red  sandstone  in  the  northern  area  has  a  faint  purplish  hue. 

When  discovered  by  Spanish  conquistador  Juan  Diaz  de  Solis 
in  1516,  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  region  was  inhabited  only  by  fierce 
Charrua  and  Guaram  Indians  and  an  enormous  wildlife  population, 
including  ostrich-like  birds  called  rheas.  The  region  disappointed 
Spaniards  in  search  of  gold  and  silver  riches.  As  a  consequence, 
the  first  Spanish  settlement,  in  Soriano  at  the  mouth  of  the  Rio 
Negro  in  the  southwest,  was  not  established  until  1624,  after  the 
gold  fever  had  cooled.  Unlike  elsewhere  in  Latin  America,  the  na- 
tive population,  which  remained  hostile  to  settlers,  was  left  rela- 
tively undisturbed,  at  least  until  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth 
century. 

Jesuit  and  Franciscan  missionaries  proselytized  among  the  In- 
dians, but  with  limited  success.  Most  of  the  Indians  in  fact  remained 
hostile  and  eventually  perished  in  battles  with  Spanish  and  Por- 
tuguese forces  (but  not,  as  in  other  places  in  the  Americas,  in  work- 
ing the  land  or  mines  as  serfs).  Because  the  native  population  was 
relatively  small  and  so  few  Indians  survived  (the  last  Charrua  In- 
dian died  in  1948),  present-day  Uruguay,  unlike  most  Latin  Ameri- 
can countries,  has  only  an  8  percent  mestizo  presence. 

With  the  separation  of  their  thrones  in  the  mid- seventeenth  cen- 
tury after  sixty  years  of  joint  rule,  Spain  and  Portugal  began  an 
intense  rivalry  for  control  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  region,  mainly 
because  of  its  strategic  trade  location.  From  1680,  when  the  Por- 
tuguese established  their  first  settlement  at  Colonia  del  Sacramen- 
to, to  1827,  the  forces  of  Spain  and  Portugal  fought  over  the  region 
known  as  the  Banda  Oriental  (eastern  side,  or  bank),  the  fertile 
plain  east  of  the  Rio  Uruguay  that  would  later  become  known  as 
Uruguay. 

Much  of  Uruguay's  nineteenth-century  history  featured  an  end- 
less succession  of  invasions,  coups,  dictatorships,  and  civil  wars. 
However,  the  half-year-long  occupation  of  Montevideo  by  British 


XXV 


forces  in  1807,  followed  by  an  invasion  of  British  merchants,  left 
the  city  with  an  enduring  cultural  legacy.  It  included  the  coun- 
try's first  printing  press  and  an  English/Spanish  weekly  newspaper, 
The  Southern  Star/La  Estrella  del  Sur,  which  introduced  Montevideans 
to  British  democracy  and  strengthened  a  desire  among  them  for 
self-government  and  independence  from  Spain.  Accordingly,  their 
resentment  of  being  subordinate  to  the  viceroyalty  capital  of  Buenos 
Aires  grew. 

The  nine-year  campaign  (1811-20)  by  Jose  Gervasio  Artigas  to 
take  control  of  Montevideo  successively  from  the  Spanish,  the 
Argentines,  and  the  Portuguese  engendered  a  new  sense  of  nation- 
ality among  the  residents  of  the  Banda  Oriental.  The  announce- 
ment by  the  Portuguese  in  1821  that  Brazil  was  annexing  the  Banda 
Oriental  and  renaming  it  the  Cisplatine  Province  prompted  Juan 
Antonio  Lavalleja  to  launch  a  guerrilla  war  against  Brazilian  forces. 
Lavalleja  and  his  fellow  revolutionaries  (later  called  the  Thirty- 
Three  Heroes),  assisted  by  Argentine  troops,  sparked  a  countrywide 
insurgency  that  escalated  into  a  war  between  Argentina  and  Brazil 
(1825-28).  Aided  by  Britain's  mediation,  both  Argentina  and  Brazil 
renounced  their  claims  to  the  Banda  Oriental,  at  least  in  theory, 
and  the  Oriental  Republic  of  Uruguay  (Republica  Oriental  del  Uru- 
guay) became  officially  independent  on  August  27,  1828.  Uruguay 
was  the  last  nation  in  South  America  to  be  created  from  the  Span- 
ish colonies. 

The  new  nation's  first  constitution,  a  liberal  document,  was 
adopted  on  July  18,  1830,  and  would  remain  unchanged  for  eighty- 
seven  years.  Shortly  after  its  adoption,  Uruguay's  two  main  political 
parties — the  Colorado  Party  (Partido  Colorado)  and  the  National 
Party  (Partido  Nacional,  usually  referred  to  as  the  Blancos) — 
emerged  from  armed  clashes.  The  Colorado  Party  was  composed 
of  Montevideo-based  middle-class  liberals,  whereas  the  National 
Party  was  made  up  of  rural-based  conservative  landowners  and 
merchants.  Their  mutual  hostility  erupted  into  the  Great  War 
(Guerra  Grande,  1843-52),  in  which  Colorado-held  Montevideo 
was  once  again  besieged  in  another  nine-year  war,  this  time  in- 
volving Uruguayan,  Argentine,  Brazilian,  French,  British,  and 
Italian  forces  (including  Italian  patriot  Giuseppe  Garibaldi).  Fol- 
lowing the  war,  which  was  economically  disastrous  for  Uruguay, 
a  policy  of  fusion  (fusion),  in  which  the  Colorado  and  National  par- 
ties agreed  to  cooperate,  created  the  political  framework  and  sta- 
bility that  were  conducive  to  economic  recovery  and  growth. 

The  fusion  policy  was  cast  aside  with  the  onset  of  the  War  of 
the  Triple  Alliance  (1865-70),  in  which  Colorado-ruled  Uruguay 
was,  ironically,  an  ally  of  Argentina  and  Brazil  against  hopelessly 


xxvi 


outmatched  Paraguay.  The  war  ended  armed  foreign  intervention 
in  Uruguayan  affairs,  but  fighting  between  the  gaucho  forces  of 
the  ruling  Colorados  and  the  opposition  Blancos  resumed.  In  1872, 
however,  the  two  parties  reached  an  accord  under  which  the  Na- 
tional Party  was  given  control  of  four  of  the  country's  departments, 
but  the  Colorado  Party  remained  in  power.  This  new  policy  of 
coparticipation  (coparticipaciori)  represented  a  compromise  between 
the  two  parties  and  was  a  policy  that  would  continue  in  Uruguayan 
politics.  A  political  watershed  in  Uruguay's  struggle  for  stability 
was  another  interparty  accord  reached  in  1897,  following  a  civil 
war,  under  which  all  citizens  were  guaranteed  political  rights  and 
the  National  Party  increased  the  number  of  departments  under  its 
control  to  six. 

In  the  last  quarter  of  the  nineteenth  century,  heavy  immigra- 
tion from  Europe,  either  directly  or  by  way  of  Argentina  or  Brazil, 
propelled  social  and  political  changes,  and  Uruguay  made  progress 
toward  becoming  a  more  stable  and  peaceful  state.  By  1872  one- 
fourth  of  the  population  was  foreign  born  and  by  1900,  one-third. 
The  European  immigration  produced  an  urban  and  secular  soci- 
ety that  was  largely  middle  class,  with  European  values.  The  north- 
ern European  immigrants  tended  to  be  of  middle-class  origin, 
whereas  the  predominant  Spaniards  and  Italians  were  more  often 
of  working-class  origin. 

Uruguay  adopted  free,  compulsory,  and  secular  education  in 
1876,  thanks  to  the  efforts  of  educator  Jose  Pedro  Varela  (presi- 
dent, 1875-76),  who  was  influenced  by  Horace  Mann  of  the  United 
States.  Varela  lived  only  thirty-five  years,  but  his  basic  principles 
of  education,  which  were  incorporated  into  the  1877  Law  of  Com- 
mon Education,  have  endured,  allowing  Uruguay  to  become  one 
of  the  most  literate  of  Latin  American  nations. 

The  foundations  of  the  modern  state  and  of  the  governmental 
institutions  and  political  traditions  were  laid  in  the  first  two  de- 
cades of  the  twentieth  century,  but  particularly  during  the  second 
presidential  term  of  the  Colorado  Party's  Jose  Batlle  y  Ordonez 
(1903-07,  1911-15).  Under  Batlle  y  Ordonez's  influence,  Uruguay 
implemented  even  more  profound  social  reforms — becoming  Latin 
America's  first  country  to  adopt  a  minimum  wage  scale  for  its 
agricultural  workers,  obligatory  voting,  and  women's  suffrage — 
and  became  a  stable  social  democracy  modeled  on  the  Swiss  sys- 
tem, which  Batlle  y  Ordonez  had  studied  in  Switzerland  between 
terms.  Batlle  y  Ordonez  also  instituted  a  Swiss-style  presidency 
designed  to  prevent  dictatorships.  Under  it,  the  nine  members  of 
the  National  Council  of  Administration  (Consejo  Nacional  de 
Administracion),  or  collegial  executive  (colegiado),  rotated  the 


xxvn 


presidency  for  one-year  terms.  Batlle  y  Ordonez's  new  executive 
system  and  social  reforms  were  adopted  in  the  1917  constitution. 

With  revenue  generated  from  their  country's  vast  wool  and  beef 
exports,  Uruguayans  enjoyed  Latin  America's  highest  standard  of 
living,  which  included  free  public  education  through  the  univer- 
sity level,  expanded  public-sector  employment,  and  a  generous  so- 
cial welfare  system  that  permitted  people  (with  the  exception  of 
the  rural  poor)  to  retire  in  middle  age.  Uruguay  was  so  prosper- 
ous that  in  1920  it  forgave  France  a  US$100  million  debt. 

The  "welfare  state"  system  limited  the  appeal  of  revolutionary 
ideologies  and  parties  by  co-opting  their  programs,  minimizing  so- 
cial and  economic  stratification,  and  giving  the  majority  of  the  popu- 
lation a  stake  in  the  existing  order.  These  and  other  factors,  such 
as  racial  and  ethnic  homogeneity  and  the  high  level  of  mobility 
within  the  predominantly  middle-class  social  structure,  all  contrib- 
uted to  the  relative  stability  of  the  country's  democratic  system. 
Uruguay  ranked  with  Chile  and  Costa  Rica  as  one  of  the  most  stable 
democracies  in  Latin  America,  although  it,  like  most  countries, 
suffered  from  the  Great  Depression.  Uruguay  was  subjected  to  dic- 
tatorial rule  only  once  during  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury (1933-38).  Even  then,  the  ad  hoc  regime  was  headed  by  a 
civilian,  Gabriel  Terra,  who  had  been  elected  president,  at  least 
initially.  Moreover,  Terra  preserved  the  country's  social  reforms. 

Uruguay  enjoyed  a  boom  in  wool  and  meat  exports  during  World 
War  II  and  the  Korean  War.  Unlike  Argentina,  it  sided  with  the 
Allies  during  World  War  II  and  hosted  United  States  air  and  naval 
bases.  Economic  stagnation  and  decline,  however,  followed  the  post- 
Korean  War  drop  in  world  demand  for  livestock  products.  Pres- 
sures created  by  those  developments — combined  with  growing 
political  lethargy,  sectarianism,  and  governmental  inefficiency  and 
corruption — unraveled  the  nation's  delicate  social  fabric  and 
precipitated  rising  levels  of  class  conflict.  In  the  second  half  of  the 
1960s,  Uruguay  was  racked  by  continual  labor  militancy  and  urban 
terrorism  by  the  National  Liberation  Movement-Tupamaros 
(Movimiento  de  Liberacion  Nacional-Tupamaros — MLN-T)  that 
propelled  the  military  increasingly  into  the  political  arena. 

Jorge  Pacheco  Areco  (1967-72)  and  Juan  Maria  Bordaberry 
Arocena  (1972-76),  both  members  of  the  Colorado  Party,  governed 
under  increasingly  frequent  states  of  siege  and  allowed  the  mili- 
tary to  pursue  its  national  security  goals  without  regard  for  con- 
stitutional safeguards  or  laws.  Put  in  charge  of  fighting  the 
Tupamaros  in  late  1971,  the  armed  forces  defeated  the  urban  guer- 
rillas within  six  months.  Nevertheless,  repression  continued,  and 
the  military  assumed  a  greater  political  role,  in  effect  making 


xxviii 


Bordaberry  little  more  than  a  figurehead  president.  Opposing  these 
Colorado  Party  regimes  were  the  National  Party  and  the  newly 
formed  Broad  Front  (Frente  Amplio),  a  coalition  of  disaffected 
Colorados,  socialists,  communists,  and  other  left-of-center  parties. 

When  the  General  Assembly  (the  legislature)  resisted  final  ap- 
proval of  draconian  national  security  measures  imposed  by  the  mili- 
tary, Bordaberry  abolished  the  General  Assembly  on  June  27,  1973, 
thereby  commencing  the  dictatorship.  The  regime  prohibited  all 
political  party  activity,  suppressed  the  opposition  press,  disbanded 
the  National  Convention  of  Workers  (Convention  Nacional  de 
Trabajadores — CNT)  as  well  as  all  parties  in  the  Broad  Front,  ar- 
rested left-of-center  political  and  union  leaders,  and  prohibited  all 
labor  union  activities.  In  June  1976,  after  forcing  Bordaberry  to 
resign,  the  military  assumed  total  control  of  the  country. 

According  to  Amnesty  International,  a  private  human  rights  or- 
ganization, under  the  military  regime  Uruguay  had  the  world's 
highest  per  capita  ratio  of  political  prisoners:  one  in  every  500 
citizens.  By  1980  many  citizens  had  been  detained  and  tortured 
at  some  point,  and  one  in  every  500  had  received  a  sentence  of 
six  years  or  longer.  Between  300,000  and  400,000  Uruguayans  went 
into  exile. 

Fortunately  for  Uruguayan  democracy,  the  military's  attempt 
to  institutionalize  its  rule  by  submitting  its  proposed  constitutional 
reform  to  a  national  referendum  in  November  1980  backfired.  By 
a  vote  of  57  percent  to  43  percent,  Uruguayans  rejected  the  pro- 
posed national  security  state.  As  a  result,  Lieutenant  General  (re- 
tired) Gregorio  Alvarez  Armelino  (1981-85)  was  obliged  to  transfer 
power  to  an  elected  civilian,  Julio  Maria  Sanguinetti. 

During  the  first  half  of  the  Sanguinetti  administration,  Uruguay 
became  an  atypical  island  of  economic  stability  and,  thanks  to  a 
deregulated  financial  system,  a  refuge  for  capital  fleeing  Argen- 
tina and  Brazil.  Although  Uruguay  bore  a  heavy  foreign  debt  load, 
it  never  stopped  paying  on  its  debt.  Uruguay  also  had  important 
gold  reserves,  one  of  the  largest  in  proportion  to  its  indebtedness 
and  economic  potential.  During  the  final  two  years  of  Sanguinetti 's 
administration,  however,  the  economy  suffered  a  downturn.  In  1989 
inflation  had  increased  to  85  percent,  the  foreign  debt  to  US$6.7 
billion,  and  the  fiscal  deficit  to  8.5  percent  of  GDP,  and  the  pur- 
chasing power  of  salaries  had  fallen. 

During  Sanguinetti 's  administration,  Uruguay,  like  other  Latin 
American  countries  undergoing  a  transition  from  military  dictator- 
ship to  democracy,  found  itself  confronted  with  the  dilemma  of  hav- 
ing to  decide  between  prosecuting  military  officers  for  crimes 
committed  during  the  period  of  military  rule,  and  thereby  risk 


xxix 


antagonizing  civil-military  relations,  or  granting  them  a  blanket 
amnesty.  Sanguinetti  had  noted  that  every  conflict  in  Uruguayan 
history  was  followed  by  a  generous  amnesty  law.  Nevertheless,  a 
1986  law  granting  amnesty  to  the  military  was  so  controversial  that 
a  national  referendum  on  the  issue  had  to  be  held.  In  a  1989  referen- 
dum, a  majority  of  the  population  upheld  the  law  exempting  mili- 
tary officers  from  human  rights  prosecutions. 

Thus,  Lacalle  was  spared  from  having  to  contend  with  the  am- 
nesty issue  after  assuming  office  as  Uruguay's  president.  Yet,  he 
quickly  caused  grumbling  within  the  armed  forces  by  asserting  his 
presidential  prerogative  and  naming  two  trusted  officers  to  head 
the  navy  and  air  force,  thereby  sidestepping  the  order  of  military 
seniority.  The  military  was  already  unhappy  with  its  shrinking  size 
and  the  reduction  in  the  military  budget  during  the  Sanguinetti 
administration. 

Although  the  military  reaffirmed  its  subservience  to  the  nation's 
democracy,  Lacalle  ordered  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  in 
May  1990  to  formulate  a  new  armed  forces  doctrine  "within  the 
framework  of  the  Constitution  and  current  laws."  The  guidelines 
were  to  restrict  its  scope  of  action  by  excluding  the  military  from 
responding  to  ordinary  internal  conflicts  that  came  within  the  sphere 
of  the  police.  Nevertheless,  Army  Commander  Lieutenant  General 
Guillermo  de  Nava  raised  concerns  among  Uruguayan  politicians 
because  of  his  public  endorsement  of  a  retired  general's  statements 
in  April  1991  warning  of  a  comeback  by  the  Tupamaros  and  the 
Communist  Party  of  Uruguay  and  calling  for  Uruguayan  society 
to  be  placed  on  a  "red  alert." 

Lacalle  also  embarked  on  an  austere  economic  adjustment  pro- 
gram that  had  two  main  components:  a  reduction  in  public  spending 
and  the  inflation  rate,  as  well  as  an  increase  in  certain  taxes.  He 
succeeded  in  his  first  year  in  office  in  cutting  spending  by  10  per- 
cent and  increasing  revenue  by  9  percent.  Nevertheless,  real  wages 
in  the  public  sector  fell  by  9  percent  and  in  the  private  sector,  by 
6  percent;  GDP  growth  in  1990  was  negligible;  and  inflation  reached 
129  percent  by  year's  end. 

The  popularity  of  the  Blancos  plummeted  from  about  38  per- 
cent at  the  time  of  the  1989  election  to  21  percent  in  December 
1990,  according  to  a  public  opinion  poll  published  by  Busqueda. 
Lacalle  at  least  shared  company  with  the  Marxist  mayor  of  Monte- 
video, the  Broad  Front's  Tabare  Vazquez,  whose  popularity  fell 
from  35  to  30  percent;  national  support  for  the  Broad  Front  slipped 
from  26  to  24  percent.  Essentially,  in  the  wake  of  the  1989  elec- 
tions the  two  traditional  parties  no  longer  dominated  Uruguay,  and 
Montevideo  in  particular.  (Vazquez  even  assumed  a  diplomatic 


xxx 


role  by  paying  a  five-day  visit  to  Cuba  in  June  1991  and  signing 
a  five-year  agreement  of  intent  for  bilateral  cooperation  with 
Havana.) 

Lacking  a  parliamentary  majority,  Lacalle  formed  a  governing 
coalition,  National  Coincidence  (Coincidencia  Nacional),  with  the 
Colorados  but  encountered  strong  resistance  to  his  proposed  aus- 
terity and  privatization  programs.  Labor  union  opposition  to  these 
plans  and  support  of  wage  claims  increased  during  1 99 1 ,  taking 
the  form  of  work  stoppages,  slowdowns,  and,  in  May,  a  one-day 
general  strike  (the  third  since  Lacalle  took  office).  Instead  of  using 
the  unpopular  term  privatization  to  describe  his  economic  policy 
agenda,  Lacalle  called  instead  for  a  redefinition  of  the  role  of  the 
state,  deregulation,  and  elimination  of  monopolies. 

In  the  first  of  a  number  of  proposed  privatizations  (which  in- 
cluded the  telephone  company,  the  state  airline,  and  state  monopo- 
lies on  insurance,  port  services,  and  production  of  alcohol),  the 
government  sold  the  state-owned  Commercial  Bank  (Banco  Com- 
mercial) in  July  1990  to  a  group  of  international  investors.  They 
and  other  multinational  investors  regarded  Uruguay  as  an  increas- 
ingly important  regional  financial  market  because  of  its  liberal  for- 
eign investment  exchange  and  banking  regulations,  strategic 
location,  stable  political  climate,  and  relatively  predictable  economic 
policies. 

Like  Switzerland,  Uruguay  in  1990  continued  to  serve  as  an  in- 
ternational meeting  place  and  a  banking  center.  Uruguay  has  long 
been  known  as  a  location  for  international  economic  conferences. 
The  eleven-member  Latin  American  Integration  Association 
(Asociacion  Latinoamericana  de  Integration — ALADI;  see  Glos- 
sary) has  been  headquartered  in  Montevideo  since  its  inception 
in  1980.  For  many  of  the  West's  economists,  in  the  early  1990s 
the  word  Uruguay  was  synonymous  with  the  Uruguay  Round  of 
negotiations  of  the  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade 
(GATT — see  Glossary).  International  meetings  often  have  been 
held  in  Punta  del  Este,  a  popular  resort  city. 

Aided  by  its  bank  secrecy  laws  first  implemented  by  the  mili- 
tary regime  in  the  early  1980s,  Uruguay  built  up  its  offshore  banking 
system  beginning  in  1989.  A  negative  outgrowth  of  this  was  the 
nation's  growing  reputation  as  a  center  for  money  laundering;  such 
activity  increased  dramatically  in  Uruguay  after  Colombian  drug 
traffickers  abandoned  Panama  following  the  United  States  mili- 
tary intervention  in  December  1 989 .  According  to  a  document  is- 
sued by  the  United  States  Department  of  State  in  April  1991, 
Uruguay  continued  to  be  a  "significant"  center  for  money  laun- 
dering because  of  its  free-trade  system,  the  large  number  of  currency 


xxxi 


exchange  houses  (more  than  seventy  in  Montevideo),  and  the  ab- 
sence of  government  regulation  of  the  operation  and  movement 
of  funds.  In  May  1991 ,  Uruguay  and  the  United  States  signed  an 
agreement,  which  was  similar  to  one  signed  between  Switzerland 
and  the  United  States  that  year,  to  facilitate  joint  action  against 
money  laundering  operations  by  drug  smugglers.  The  accord  had 
not  yet  gone  into  effect  as  of  mid-July  1991,  pending  ratification 
by  the  legislatures  of  both  countries. 

Most  Uruguayans  were  more  concerned  with  their  own  bank 
accounts  than  with  those  of  foreign  drug  traffickers.  Lacalle  did 
not  improve  his  standing  in  the  popularity  polls  by  introducing  *  'un- 
pleasant" economic  measures  in  his  speech  on  his  first  anniver- 
sary in  office.  He  also  warned  the  General  Assembly  that  unless 
it  reformed  the  social  security  system  by  curbing  its  generous 
benefits  (already  cut  by  17.4  percent  in  1990),  his  savings  in  con- 
trolling public  expenditures  would  be  lost.  Although  Uruguay  sup- 
ported the  world  embargo  against  Iraq,  its  effects  were,  in  Lacalle 's 
words,  "particularly  painful"  for  Uruguay  because  of  lost  mut- 
ton exports  to  Iraq  and  higher  oil  import  costs. 

On  March  26,  1991,  Uruguay  sought  to  revive  its  export  sector 
by  signing,  along  with  Argentina,  Brazil,  and  Paraguay,  the  Treaty 
of  Asuncion,  a  pact  that  created  the  Southern  Cone  Common  Mar- 
ket (Mercado  Comun  del  Sur — Mercosur).  Mercosur,  which  was 
scheduled  to  go  into  effect  on  January  1 ,  1995  (a  member,  however, 
could  decide  to  drop  out  before  then),  was  the  goal  of  various  re- 
gional integration  agreements,  such  as  the  River  Transport  Sys- 
tem, consisting  of  the  Rio  Paraguay-Rio  Parana-Rio  Uruguay 
waterway. 

Mercosur  was  formed  in  part  in  response  to  President  George 
H.W.  Bush's  June  1990  Enterprise  for  the  Americas  Initiative  (see 
Glossary).  The  Mercosur  nations  and  the  United  States  signed  a 
letter  of  intent  on  June  19,  1991,  that  could  eventually  lead  to  a 
free-trade  pact  modeled  on  the  Mexico-United  States  accord. 
However,  serious  obstacles  to  a  free-trade  pact  between  the  United 
States  and  the  Mercosur  nations  remained,  such  as  a  collective 
US$200  billion  foreign  debt  and  persistent  regional  trade  barriers. 

Although  Uruguay's  Senate  ratified  the  country's  participation 
in  Mercosur,  the  nation's  initial  enthusiasm  soon  waned.  Uru- 
guayan business  and  agricultural  organizations  were  concerned  that 
neighboring  giants,  particularly  Brazil,  would  only  take  advantage 
of  lower  Uruguayan  tariffs  to  increase  competition.  In  an  inter- 
view with  the  Buenos  Aires  daily  El  Clarin  in  late  June  1991 ,  Lacalle 
said,  somewhat  optimistically,  that  Uruguayan  businessmen  were 


xxxii 


viewing  Mercosur  not  with  resistance  but  with  feelings  of  "caution, 
a  reasonable  expectation,  a  desire  for  a  smooth  transition  period." 

Of  course,  the  emergence  of  Mercosur  and  the  prospect  of  a  free- 
trade  agreement  with  the  United  States  were  anathema  to  the  Uru- 
guayan left.  The  Broad  Front  also  feared  proposed  military  cooper- 
ation within  Mercosur,  arguing  that  Uruguay  could  become  a  pawn 
of  Argentina  and  Brazil.  In  any  event,  Montevideo,  in  its  grow- 
ing capacity  as  a  regional  financial  and  banking  services  center  and 
potential  hub  of  free  trade — despite  its  Marxist  mayor — seemed 
in  July  1991  to  be  moving  closer,  if  reluctantly,  to  becoming  what 
Lacalle  envisioned  as  the  "gateway"  to  Mercosur. 

July  16,  1991 

*    *  * 

In  1992  Mercosur  continued  to  be  President  Lacalle' s  main  in- 
strument for  ensuring  that  competition  came  to  his  country.  Aided 
by  events  in  Eastern  Europe,  Lacalle 's  tariff-free  trading  vision 
of  Uruguay's  future  found  greater  receptivity  among  Uruguayans 
to  free-market  reforms  and  smaller  government.  Nevertheless, 
resistance  to  the  Lacalle  government's  attempts  to  restructure  the 
state  sector  remained  substantial.  Uruguayan  businessmen  wor- 
ried that  Argentine  and  Brazilian  industries  would  devour  them. 
According  to  a  poll  taken  in  February  1992,  about  54  percent  of 
the  Uruguayans  who  were  queried  opposed  the  privatization  policy. 

With  only  thirty-nine  seats  in  the  Chamber  of  Representatives, 
the  Lacalle  government  was  forced  to  negotiate  support  for  each 
of  its  initiatives  with  the  Colorado  Party  (thirty  seats),  Broad  Front 
(twenty-one  seats),  and  New  Sector  (Nuevo  Espacio;  nine  seats). 
Consequendy,  it  was  not  until  September  1991,  by  which  time 
Lacalle 's  popularity  had  fallen  to  1 1  percent,  that  the  General  As- 
sembly narrowly  approved  his  privatization  law  (the  Public  Com- 
panies Law),  after  eighteen  months  of  drafting  it  and  four  months 
of  debating  it.  This  law  allowed  private  entrepreneurs  to  compete 
in  a  bidding  system  for  the  right  to  privatize  public  services. 

Reflecting  growing  opposition  to  his  economic  policy  of  auster- 
ity and  privatization,  Lacalle 's  National  Coincidence  alliance  and 
his  narrow  parliamentary  majority  collapsed  by  early  1992.  At  the 
end  of  January  1992,  Lacalle  had  to  call  for  the  resignation  of  his 
cabinet  ministers,  who  were  then  "provisionally  ratified."  By  that 
April,  dissent  had  emerged  even  within  the  ruling  National  Party, 
with  two  factions  opposing  the  strong  tightening  of  workers'  salar- 
ies, which  had  particularly  affected  state  workers.  One  of  these 


xxxiii 


factions,  calling  itself  the  Progressive  Pole  (Polo  Progresista)  and 
supported  by  several  prominent  Blancos,  including  Senator  Alberto 
Saenz  de  Zumaran,  launched  itself  as  a  new  party  on  May  10. 

Opposition  to  Lacalle's  new  law  focused  on  the  major  privati- 
zations planned  for  Uruguayan  National  Airlines  (Primeras  Lfneas 
Uruguayas  de  Navegacion  Aerea — PLUNA),  the  National  Ad- 
ministration for  the  Generation  and  Transmission  of  Electricity 
(Administracion  Nacional  de  Usinas  y  Transmisiones  Electricas — 
UTE),  and  the  National  Administration  of  Fuels,  Alcohol,  and  Port- 
land Cement  (Administracion  Nacional  de  Combustibles,  Alco- 
hol, y  Portland — ANCAP).  So-called  peripheral  divestments 
included  the  National  Printing  Press  (Imprensa  Nacional),  hospi- 
tal services,  administration  of  air  terminals  and  three  port  termi- 
nals, and  agricultural  development  facilities.  Confrontations  were 
imminent  within  these  and  other  state  enterprises,  which  operated 
as  autonomous  entities  (autonomous  agencies  or  state  enterprises; 
see  Glossary)  run  by  five-member  executive  boards  in  which  three 
were  progovernment  party  members  and  two  were  opposition  party 
members.  The  opposition  Colorado  Party  members  were  expected 
to  ally  themselves  with  the  National  Party  members  opposed  to 
the  government's  economic  policy. 

The  government's  salary  measure,  which  prompted  the  sixth 
general  strike  against  the  government,  was  implemented  as  a  result 
of  an  agreement  with  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — 
see  Glossary)  to  unfreeze  some  US$300  million  in  credits  to  be  used 
for  repaying  the  US$7.4  billion  foreign  debt,  which  grew  by  US$405 
million  in  the  Lacalle  administration's  first  two  years. 

In  a  few  other  areas,  Uruguay  made  some  good  economic 
progress  in  1991 .  Buoyed  by  850,000  tourists  plus  internal  demand 
(both  consumption  and  investment),  the  country  enjoyed  robust 
growth  during  the  year.  Inflation  was  at  least  90  percent,  as  com- 
pared with  129  percent  in  1990. 

However,  other  economic  and  social  problems  worsened.  In  ad- 
dition to  the  increase  in  trade  union  conflicts,  unemployment  rose 
from  8.4  percent  in  January  1991  to  9.2  percent  at  the  end  of  1991, 
and  GDP  grew  by  at  best  0.5  percent  in  1991,  as  compared  with 
0.9  percent  in  1990.  Moreover,  according  to  a  report  by  the  General 
Directorate  of  Statistics  and  Census  based  on  a  household  survey, 
15.8  percent  of  all  Uruguayan  families  were  living  in  a  state  of 
"critical  poverty"  in  1991  (as  compared  with  11  percent  in  1981), 
while  22.3  percent  lacked  one  or  more  basic  needs,  such  as  hous- 
ing, water  supply,  sanitation,  education,  or  a  living  wage. 

Meanwhile,  middle-class  Uruguayans  and  the  political  system 
were  resisting  Lacalle's  proposals  to  restructure  the  old  welfare 


xxxiv 


system,  such  as  a  proposal  to  raise  the  qualifying  age  for  retire- 
ment pensions — fifty-five  years  of  age  for  women  and  sixty  for 
men — by  five  years.  In  his  speech  to  the  nation  on  May  26,  1992, 
Lacalle  pointed  out  that  the  country's  social  security  bill  had  risen 
from  US$718  million  in  1985  to  US$1.1  billion  in  1991,  creating 
an  ever- widening  deficit. 

Ironically,  the  country  was  enjoying  a  bout  of  euphoria  over  the 
startling  discovery  of  a  gold-laden  Spanish  galleon,  El  Preciado,  that 
sank  eight  kilometers  from  the  Montevideo  harbor  in  June  1792. 
Many  Uruguayans,  including  some  politicians  and  government  offi- 
cials, anticipated  a  windfall  that  could  be  used  for  social  services 
from  the  treasure  and  from  as  many  as  seven  other  sunken  ships 
known  to  be  in  the  area  with  large  amounts  of  gold.  Based  on  the 
amount  of  gold  already  recovered,  the  El  Preciado  booty  was  esti- 
mated to  be  worth  from  US$300  million  to  US$3  billion. 

In  contrast  to  the  plunging  popularity  of  Lacalle  and  his  National 
Party,  the  popularity  rating  of  Montevideo's  leftist  mayor,  Tabare 
Vazquez,  soared  to  53  percent  in  September  1991,  increasing  the 
Broad  Front's  confidence  of  victory  in  the  1994  elections.  By  Novem- 
ber 1991,  the  Broad  Front's  popularity  had  risen  to  24  percent,  mak- 
ing it  the  second  most  popular  party  after  the  Colorado  Party,  which 
had  a  41  percent  popularity  rating  (the  National  Party  was  supported 
by  only  19  percent  of  those  surveyed  in  an  April  1992  poll).  Taking 
a  cue  from  events  in  the  former  Soviet  Union,  the  Broad  Front  offi- 
cially abandoned  its  commitment  to  Marxist- Leninist  principles. 

In  April  1992,  however,  the  Broad  Front's  most  radical  mem- 
ber, the  Uruguayan  Revolutionary  Movement  (Movimiento  Revo- 
lucionario  Oriental — MRO),  stepped  back  into  an  earlier,  dark 
era  by  endorsing  "an  armed  struggle  strategy."  That  approach 
was  also  adopted  by  a  self-styled  right-wing  paramilitary  group 
linked  to  military  officers  and  called  the  Juan  Antonio  Lavalleja 
Command  (Comando  Juan  Antonio  Lavalleja),  which  launched 
a  series  of  bombings,  including  one  against  Sanguinetti's  office, 
and  bomb  threats  in  May.  The  resulting  climate  of  fear  and 
restlessness,  which  had  characterized  the  early  1970s,  seemed 
anachronistic  in  the  Uruguay  of  the  1990s,  where  democracy  sup- 
posedly had  been  consolidated.  The  military-linked  terrorism  and 
the  public  remarks  made  by  some  retired  military  officers  reveal- 
ing sentiment  in  favor  of  a  coup  also  seemed  to  reflect  growing 
military  uneasiness  over  the  prospects  of  a  Broad  Front  electoral 
victory  in  1994. 


June  4,  1992  Rex  A.  Hudson 


XXXV 


Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting 


Jose  Gervasio  Artigas,  leader  of  the  independence  movement 


WHEN  SPANIARDS  DISCOVERED  the  territory  of  present- 
day  Uruguay  in  1516,  they  found  only  a  rolling  prairie  populated 
by  groups  of  Indians  living  in  primitive  conditions.  When  con- 
fronted by  the  Spaniards,  the  Indians  fiercely  defended  their  free- 
dom and  their  independent  way  of  life.  Their  continued  ferocious 
resistance  to  Spanish  conquest,  combined  with  the  absence  of  gold 
and  silver,  discouraged  settlement  in  this  region  during  the  six- 
teenth and  early  seventeenth  centuries.  Colonization  by  Spain  began 
to  increase,  however,  when  Portugal  showed  an  interest  in  expand- 
ing Brazil's  frontiers  to  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  Estuary  in  the  late  seven- 
teenth century  (see  fig.  1).  Indeed,  the  early  history  of  Uruguay 
is  dominated  by  the  struggle  between  Spain  and  Portugal  and  then 
between  Brazil  and  Argentina  for  control  of  the  Banda  Oriental 
(as  Uruguay  was  then  known),  the  eastern  side,  or  bank,  so  called 
because  the  territory  lies  to  the  east  of  the  Rio  Uruguay,  which 
forms  the  border  with  Argentina  and  flows  into  the  Rio  de  la  Plata. 

The  conquistadors  imported  cattle,  which  were  well  suited  to 
the  region,  with  its  abundant  pastureland,  temperate  climate,  and 
ample  water  supply.  Cattle  soon  became  the  main  source  of  wealth 
and  consequently  the  main  attraction  of  the  region,  and  the  terri- 
tory was  opened  up  by  hardy  pioneers  and  gauchos,  or  cow- 
boys, whose  wide-ranging  way  of  life  contributed  in  no  small  part 
to  the  spirit  of  independence  that  has  long  characterized  Uruguay. 
Montevideo  was  founded  by  the  Spanish  in  the  early  eighteenth 
century  as  a  military  stronghold.  The  Spanish  fleet  used  its  natu- 
ral harbor,  which  soon  developed  into  a  commercial  center  com- 
peting with  Buenos  Aires,  the  Argentine  capital  established  on  the 
opposite  shore  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata. 

The  move  to  independence  began,  as  elsewhere  in  Latin  America, 
in  the  early  nineteenth  century.  Uruguay's  revolt  against  Spain 
was  initiated  in  1811  by  Jose  Gervasio  Artigas,  a  gaucho  chieftain 
who  became  a  hero  of  the  independence  movement.  Artigas  is 
known  to  Uruguayans  as  the  father  of  Uruguayan  independence, 
although  his  attempt  to  gain  autonomy  for  the  country  within  the 
boundaries  of  a  regional  federation  was  unsuccessful.  Independence 
was  not  finally  and  formally  achieved  until  1828,  following  a  war 
between  Brazil  and  Uruguayan  patriots  supported  by  Argentina. 
British  diplomatic  mediation  ended  the  conflict  and  resulted  in 
the  recognition  of  the  Oriental  Republic  of  Uruguay  (Republica 
Oriental  del  Uruguay)  as  an  independent  state.  Nevertheless,  civil 


3 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


wars,  invasions,  and  foreign  intervention  continued  to  disrupt  the 
nation's  development  until  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century. 

The  two  political  parties  that  have  dominated  Uruguayan  polit- 
ical life  since  independence  were  born  in  these  early  years  of  insta- 
bility, although  at  that  time  they  were  litde  more  than  feuding  bands 
of  gauchos.  The  issue  that  provoked  the  initial  major  confronta- 
tion was  federalism  versus  unitary  rule.  In  1838  the  federalist  sym- 
pathies of  General  Manuel  Oribe  (president,  1835-38)  led  to  a  revolt 
by  the  forces  of  General  Jose  Fructoso  Rivera  (president,  1830-35), 
who  again  became  president  following  the  defeat  of  Oribe  and  his 
followers.  Oribe 's  forces,  supported  by  merchants,  landowners,  and 
the  high  clergy,  became  known  as  Blancos  in  reference  to  the  white 
{bianco)  hatbands  they  wore  to  distinguish  their  own  men  from  the 
enemy  on  the  field  of  battle.  Rivera's  forces,  representing  more 
liberal  urban  elements,  were  distinguished  by  red  (Colorado)  hat- 
bands and  thus  were  designated  Colorados.  The  political  lines 
drawn  in  the  1830s  evolved  into  two  rival  parties:  the  Colorado 
Party  (Partido  Colorado),  which  identified  itself  as  the  defender 
of  Uruguayan  sovereignty  and  as  the  champion  of  the  common 
man  and  liberalism,  and  the  National  Party  (Partido  Nacional, 
usually  referred  to  as  the  Blancos),  which  stood  for  order  and  con- 
servatism and  declared  itself  protector  of  the  faith. 

During  the  last  three  decades  of  the  nineteenth  century,  a  period 
that  included  fifteen  years  of  military  rule,  there  were  frequent  con- 
frontations and  clashes  between  the  Colorados  and  the  Blancos  and 
among  competing  rival  factions  of  the  Colorados.  A  growing  gulf 
between  the  capital  city  and  the  interior  contributed  to  a  solidifi- 
cation of  the  previously  somewhat  amorphous  ideologies  of  the  two 
parties  as  the  Colorados  recruited  urban  immigrant  groups,  espe- 
cially laborers,  and  the  Blancos  represented  more  conservative  rural 
elements. 

Political  stability  came  about  in  the  first  two  decades  of  the  twen- 
tieth century  largely  through  the  efforts  of  the  dominant  figure  in 
the  Colorado  Party.  Jose  Batlle  y  Ordonez  (president,  1903-07, 
1911-15)  brilliantly  promoted  the  social,  economic,  and  political 
modernization  of  the  country  until  his  death  in  1929,  guiding  a 
social  transformation  that  reordered  virtually  every  aspect  of 
national  life.  His  programs  included  the  establishment  of  a  com- 
prehensive social  welfare  program,  the  encouragement  of  domes- 
tic industry,  the  improvement  of  working  conditions,  the  expansion 
of  education,  and  the  separation  of  church  and  state. 

Batlle  y  Ordonez's  Colorado  successors  did  not  uniformly  or 
consistently  share  his  commitment  to  economic  and  social  reform, 
but  progress  toward  political,  social,  and  economic  modernization 


4 


Historical  Setting 


nevertheless  continued.  Between  1946  and  1956,  Luis  Batlle  Berres 
(president,  1947-51),  a  nephew  of  Batlle  y  Ordonez,  was  the  lead- 
ing political  figure.  Espousing  neo-Batllism,  he  attempted  to  fur- 
ther industrialize  the  economy,  develop  its  agricultural  sector,  and 
expand  the  state  apparatus,  as  well  as  to  renew  social  progress.  But 
the  process  came  to  a  halt  in  the  mid-1950s  as  a  result  of  economic 
difficulties  and  ended  with  the  triumph  of  the  National  Party  (the 
Blancos)  in  1958,  after  more  than  ninety  years  of  Colorado  gov- 
ernment. 

During  the  eight  Blanco  administrations  (1958-67),  instruments 
of  state-directed  economic  policy  were  dismantled,  relations  with 
the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary)  became 
closer,  and  the  livestock  sector  became  increasingly  important. 
Nevertheless,  the  economic  crisis  continued,  and  political  and 
social  turbulence  increased.  Unions  formed  a  centralized  organi- 
zation in  which  the  left  had  a  dominant  influence,  and  an  urban 
guerrilla  group,  the  National  Liberation  Movement-Tupamaros 
(Movimiento  de  Liberacion  Nacional-Tupamaros — MLN-T)  was 
formed. 

In  1967  the  Colorados  regained  power,  but  President  Jorge 
Pacheco  Areco  (1967-72)  enforced  a  limited  state  of  siege  through- 
out most  of  his  tenure.  He  applied  a  price-  and  wage-freeze  policy 
to  fight  inflation,  banned  leftist  groups,  and  called  in  the  military 
to  repress  the  Tupamaros,  whose  acts  of  urban  terrorism  posed 
a  major  national  security  threat.  In  1972  Pacheco's  successor,  Presi- 
dent Juan  Maria  Bordaberry  Arocena  (1972-76),  supported  by  the 
military,  declared  a  state  of  "internal  war,"  closed  the  General 
Assembly,  persecuted  the  opposition,  banned  unions  and  leftist  par- 
ties, and  curtailed  civil  liberties.  The  military  dictatorship  that  he 
instituted  also  implemented  a  neoliberal,  monetarist,  economic  pol- 
icy that  sought  to  reverse  years  of  capital  flight  and  economic  stag- 
nation by  increasing  exports  and  controlling  inflation.  Although 
it  scored  some  economic  successes,  the  military  suffered  a  defeat 
in  1980  after  submitting  an  authoritarian  constitution  to  a  plebi- 
scite. From  then  on,  civilian  political  leaders  returned  to  the  polit- 
ical scene,  and  in  1984  the  majority  of  the  political  parties  and  the 
military  agreed  to  call  for  elections  in  November  1985,  thus  allow- 
ing for  a  transition  to  democracy. 

From  Pre-Columbian  Times  to  the  Conquest 

In  contrast  to  most  Latin  American  countries,  no  significant  ves- 
tiges of  civilizations  existing  prior  to  the  arrival  of  European  set- 
tlers were  found  in  the  territory  of  present-day  Uruguay.  Lithic 
remains  dating  back  10,000  years  have  been  found  in  the  north 


5 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


of  the  country.  They  belonged  to  the  Catalan  and  Cuareim  cul- 
tures, whose  members  were  presumably  hunters  and  gatherers. 

Other  peoples  arrived  in  the  region  4,000  years  ago.  They  be- 
longed to  two  groups,  the  Charrua  and  the  Tupi-Guarani,  classi- 
fied according  to  the  linguistic  family  to  which  they  belonged. 
Neither  group  evolved  past  the  middle  or  upper  Paleolithic  level, 
which  is  characterized  by  an  economy  based  on  hunting,  fishing, 
and  gathering.  Other,  lesser  indigenous  groups  in  Uruguay  included 
the  Yaro,  Chana,  and  Bohane.  Presumably,  the  Chana  reached 
lower  Neolithic  levels  with  agriculture  and  ceramics. 

In  the  early  sixteenth  century,  Spanish  seamen  searched  for  the 
strait  linking  the  Adantic  and  the  Pacific  oceans.  Juan  Diaz  de  Solis 
entered  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  by  mistake  in  1516  and  thus  discovered 
the  region.  Charrua  Indians  allegedly  attacked  the  ship  as  soon 
as  it  arrived  and  killed  everyone  in  the  party  except  for  one  boy 
(who  was  rescued  a  dozen  years  later  by  Sebastian  Cabot,  an  En- 
glishman in  the  service  of  Spain).  Although  historians  currently 
believe  that  Diaz  de  Solis  was  actually  killed  by  the  Guarani,  the 
"Charrua  legend"  has  survived,  and  Uruguay  has  found  in  it  a 
mythical  past  of  bravery  and  rebellion  in  the  face  of  oppression. 
The  fierce  Charrua  would  plague  the  Spanish  settlers  for  the  next 
300  years. 

In  1520  the  Portuguese  captain  Ferdinand  Magellan  cast  anchor 
in  a  bay  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  at  the  site  that  would  become  Monte- 
video. Other  expeditions  reconnoitered  the  territory  and  its  rivers. 
It  was  not  until  1603  that  Hernando  Arias  de  Saavedra,  the  first 
Spanish  governor  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  region,  discovered  the  rich 
pastures  and  introduced  the  first  cattle  and  horses.  Early  colonizers 
were  disappointed  to  find  no  gold  or  silver,  but  well-irrigated 
pastures  in  the  area  contributed  to  the  quick  reproduction  of 
cattle — a  different  kind  of  wealth.  English  and  Portuguese  inhabi- 
tants of  the  region,  however,  initiated  an  indiscriminate  slaughter 
of  cattle  to  obtain  leather. 

During  the  sixteenth  and  early  seventeenth  centuries,  the  Charrua 
learned  the  art  of  horsemanship  from  the  Spaniards  in  adjacent 
areas,  strengthening  their  ability  to  resist  subjugation.  The  Indians 
were  eventually  subdued  by  the  large  influx  of  Argentines  and 
Brazilians  pursuing  the  herds  of  cattle  and  horses.  Never  exceed- 
ing 10,000  in  number  in  eighteenth-century  Uruguay,  the  Indians 
also  lacked  any  economic  significance  to  the  Europeans  because 
they  usually  did  not  produce  for  trade.  As  a  result  of  genocide, 
imported  disease,  and  even  intermarriage,  the  number  of  Indians 
rapidly  diminished,  and  by  1850  the  pureblooded  Indian  had  vir- 
tually ceased  to  exist. 


6 


Two  gauchos  in  Tacuarembo  Department 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 

In  1680  the  Portuguese,  seeking  to  expand  Brazil's  frontier, 
founded  Colonia  del  Sacramento  on  the  Rio  de  la  Plata,  across  from 
Buenos  Aires.  Forty  years  later,  the  Spanish  monarch  ordered  the 
construction  of  Fuerte  de  San  Jose,  a  military  fort  at  present-day 
Montevideo,  to  resist  this  expansion.  With  the  founding  of  San 
Felipe  de  Montevideo  at  this  site  in  1726,  Montevideo  became  the 
port  and  station  of  the  Spanish  fleet  in  the  South  Atlantic.  The 
new  setdement  included  families  from  Buenos  Aires  and  the  Canary 
Islands  to  whom  the  Spanish  crown  distributed  plots  and  farms 
and  subsequently  large  haciendas  in  the  interior.  Authorities  were 
appointed,  and  a  cabildo  (town  council)  was  formed. 

Montevideo  was  on  a  bay  with  a  natural  harbor  suitable  for  large 
oceangoing  vessels,  and  this  geographic  advantage  over  Buenos 
Aires  was  at  the  base  of  the  future  rivalry  between  the  two  cities. 
The  establishment  of  the  Viceroyalty  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  in  1776, 
with  Buenos  Aires  as  its  capital,  aggravated  this  rivalry  (see  fig.  2). 
Montevideo  was  authorized  to  trade  directly  with  Spain  instead 
of  through  Buenos  Aires. 

Montevideo's  role  as  a  commercial  center  was  bolstered  when 
salted  beef  began  to  be  used  to  feed  ship  crews  and  later  slaves  in 
Cuba.  The  city's  commercial  activity  was  expanded  by  the  introduc- 
tion of  the  slave  trade  to  the  southern  part  of  the  continent  because 


7 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Montevideo  was  a  major  port  of  entry  for  slaves.  Thousands  of 
slaves  were  brought  into  Uruguay  between  the  mid-eighteenth  and 
the  early  nineteenth  century,  but  the  number  was  relatively  low 
because  the  major  economic  activity — livestock  raising — was  not 
labor  intensive  and  because  labor  requirements  were  met  by  in- 
creasing immigration  from  Europe. 

Throughout  the  eighteenth  century,  new  settlements  were  estab- 
lished to  consolidate  the  occupation  of  the  territory,  which  con- 
stituted a  natural  buffer  region  separating  Spanish  from  Portuguese 
possessions.  To  combat  smuggling,  protect  ranchers,  and  contain 
Indians,  the  Spanish  formed  a  rural  patrol  force  called  the  Blanden- 
gues  Corps. 

In  late  1806,  Britain,  at  war  with  Spain,  invaded  the  Rio  de  la 
Plata  Estuary  to  avenge  Spain's  recapture  of  Buenos  Aires  from 
the  British.  The  10,000-member  British  force  captured  Montevideo 
in  early  1807  and  occupied  it  until  that  July,  when  it  left  and  moved 
against  Buenos  Aires,  where  it  was  soundly  defeated. 

In  1808  Spanish  prestige  was  weakened  when  Napoleon  in- 
vaded Spain  and  installed  his  brother  Joseph  on  the  throne.  The 
cabildo  of  Montevideo,  however,  created  an  autonomous  junta  that 
remained  nominally  loyal  to  Ferdinand  VII  as  the  king  of  Spain. 
Montevideo's  military  commander,  Javier  EHo,  eventually  per- 
suaded the  Spanish  central  junta  to  accept  his  control  at  Montevideo 
as  independent  of  Buenos  Aires.  In  1810  criollos  (those  born  in 
America  of  Spanish  parents)  from  Buenos  Aires  took  the  reins  of 
government  in  that  city  and  unseated  the  Spanish  viceroy.  The 
population  of  the  Banda  Oriental  was  politically  divided.  The  coun- 
tryside favored  recognizing  Elio's  junta  in  Buenos  Aires;  the  au- 
thorities in  Montevideo  wanted  to  retain  a  nominal  allegiance  to 
the  Spanish  king. 

The  Struggle  for  Independence;  1811-30 

Artigas's  Revolution,  1811-20 

In  February  1811,  when  EHo  prepared  to  take  the  offensive 
against  Buenos  Aires,  the  interior  of  the  Banda  Oriental,  led  by 
Jose  Gervasio  Artigas,  captain  of  the  Blandengues  Corps,  rose  in 
opposition  to  Elfo,  and  Artigas  offered  his  services  to  Buenos  Aires. 
Artigas,  then  forty- six  years  old,  was  the  scion  of  a  family  that  had 
settled  in  Montevideo  in  1726.  Influenced  by  federalism,  Artigas 
had  been  dissatisfied  with  the  administration  of  the  former  colo- 
nial government  in  Buenos  Aires,  particularly  with  its  discrimina- 
tion against  Montevideo  in  commercial  affairs.  Artigas's  army  won 
its  most  important  victory  against  the  Spaniards  in  the  Battle  of 


8 


Historical  Setting 


Las  Piedras  on  May  18,  1811.  He  then  besieged  Montevideo  from 
May  to  October  1811.  EKo  saved  Montevideo  only  by  inviting  in 
the  Portuguese  forces  from  Brazil,  which  poured  into  Uruguay  and 
dominated  most  of  the  country  by  July  1811.  That  October  Elio 
concluded  a  peace  treaty  with  Buenos  Aires  that  provided  for  the 
lifting  of  the  siege  of  Montevideo  and  the  withdrawal  of  all  the  troops 
of  Artigas,  Portugal,  and  Spain  from  Uruguay.  Artigas,  his  3,000 
troops,  and  13,000  civilians  evacuated  Salto,  on  the  Rio  Uruguay, 
and  crossed  the  river  to  the  Argentine  town  of  Ayuf,  where  they 
camped  for  several  months.  This  trek  is  considered  the  first  step 
in  the  formation  of  the  Uruguayan  nation.  The  Portuguese  and 
Spanish  troops  did  not  withdraw  until  1812. 

At  the  beginning  of  1813,  after  Artigas  had  returned  to  the  Banda 
Oriental,  having  emerged  as  a  champion  of  federalism  against  the 
unitary  centralism  of  Buenos  Aires,  the  new  government  in  Buenos 
Aires  convened  a  constituent  assembly.  The  Banda  Oriental's 
delegates  to  elect  assembly  representatives  gathered  and,  under 
instructions  issued  by  Artigas,  proposed  a  series  of  political  direc- 
tives. Later  known  as  the  "Instructions  of  the  Year  Thirteen," 
these  directives  included  the  declaration  of  the  colonies'  indepen- 
dence and  the  formation  of  a  confederation  of  the  provinces  (the 
United  Provinces  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata)  from  the  former  Viceroyalty 
of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  (dissolved  in  1810  when  independence  was 
declared).  This  formula,  inspired  by  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States,  would  have  guaranteed  political  and  economic  autonomy 
for  each  area,  particularly  that  of  the  Banda  Oriental  with  respect 
to  Buenos  Aires.  However,  the  assembly  refused  to  seat  the  delegates 
from  the  Banda  Oriental,  and  Buenos  Aires  pursued  a  system  based 
on  unitary  centralism.  Consequently,  Artigas  broke  with  Buenos 
Aires  and  again  besieged  Montevideo. 

Artigas  lifted  his  siege  of  Montevideo  at  the  beginning  of  1814, 
but  warfare  continued  among  the  Uruguayans,  Spaniards,  and 
Argentines.  In  June  1814,  Montevideo  surrendered  to  the  troops 
of  Buenos  Aires.  Artigas  controlled  the  countryside,  however,  and 
his  army  retook  the  city  in  early  1815.  Once  the  troops  from  Buenos 
Aires  had  withdrawn,  the  Banda  Oriental  appointed  its  first  auton- 
omous government.  Artigas  established  the  administrative  center 
in  the  northwest  of  the  country,  where  in  1815  he  organized  the 
Federal  League  under  his  protection.  It  consisted  of  six  provinces — 
including  four  present-day  Argentine  provinces — demarcated  by 
the  Rio  Parana,  Rio  Uruguay,  and  Rio  de  la  Plata — with  Monte- 
video as  the  overseas  port.  The  basis  for  political  union  was  cus- 
toms unification  and  free  internal  trade.  To  regulate  external  trade, 


9 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


—  —  Colonial  boundary 

•  Colonial  capital 

—  n   River 

i  Spanish  territory 

|  Portuguese  territory 


^^SS^^   Possession  disputed  by 
Britain  and  Spain 

0  400       800  Kilometers 

1  1  I  1     I1     '  I  1 

0  400  800  Miles 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  A.  Curtis  Wilgus,  Historical  Atlas  of  Latin  America,  New 
York,  1967,  112. 

Figure  2.  Three  South  American  Viceroyalties ,  ca.  1800 

the  protectionist  Customs  Regulations  Act  (1815)  was  adopted.  That 
same  year,  Artigas  also  attempted  to  implement  agrarian  reform 
in  the  Banda  Oriental  by  distributing  land  confiscated  from  his 
enemies  to  supporters  of  the  revolution,  including  Indians  and 
mestizos  (people  of  mixed  Indian  and  European  ancestry). 

In  1816  a  force  of  10,000  Portuguese  troops  invaded  the  Banda 
Oriental  from  Brazil  and  took  Montevideo  in  January  1817.  After 
nearly  four  more  years  of  struggle,  a  defeated  Artigas  fled  into  exile 
in  Paraguay  in  September  1820  and  remained  there  until  his  death 
in  1850.  After  routing  Artigas,  Portuguese  Brazil  annexed  the 
Banda  Oriental  as  its  southernmost  Cisplatine  Province. 


10 


Historical  Setting 


From  Insurrection  to  State  Organization,  1820-30 

Following  its  independence  from  Portugal  in  1822,  Brazil  was 
confronted  by  unrest  in  the  Banda  Oriental.  On  April  19,  1825, 
a  group  of  Uruguayan  revolutionaries  (the  famous  Thirty-Three 
Heroes)  led  by  Juan  Antonio  Lavalleja,  reinforced  by  Argentine 
troops,  crossed  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  from  Buenos  Aires  and  organized 
an  insurrection  that  succeeded  in  gaining  control  over  the  country- 
side. On  August  25,  1825,  in  a  town  in  the  liberated  area,  rep- 
resentatives from  the  Banda  Oriental  declared  the  territory's 
independence  from  Brazil  and  its  incorporation  into  the  United 
Provinces  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata.  Brazil  declared  war  on  them.  The 
ensuing  conflict  lasted  from  December  1825  to  August  1828. 

In  1828  Lord  John  Ponsonby,  envoy  of  the  British  Foreign  Office, 
proposed  making  the  Banda  Oriental  an  independent  state.  Brit- 
ain was  anxious  to  create  a  buffer  state  between  Argentina  and 
Brazil  to  ensure  its  trade  interests  in  the  region.  With  British  medi- 
ation, Brazil  and  Argentina  signed  the  Treaty  of  Montevideo  at 
Rio  de  Janeiro  on  August  27,  1828,  whereby  Argentina  and  Brazil 
renounced  their  claims  to  the  territories  that  would  become  integral 
parts  of  the  newly  independent  state  on  October  3.  However, 
Argentina  and  Brazil  retained  the  right  to  intervene  in  the  event 
of  a  civil  war  and  to  approve  the  constitution  of  the  new  nation. 

Argentine  and  Brazilian  troops  began  their  withdrawal,  while 
a  constituent  assembly  drew  up  the  constitution  of  the  new  coun- 
try, created  its  flag  and  coat  of  arms,  and  enacted  legislation.  The 
constitution  was  approved  officially  on  July  18,  1830,  after  having 
been  ratified  by  Argentina  and  Brazil.  It  established  a  representa- 
tive unitary  republic — the  Republica  Oriental  del  Uruguay  (Orien- 
tal Republic  of  Uruguay),  the  word  oriental  (eastern)  representing 
the  legacy  of  the  original  designation  of  the  territory  as  the  Banda 
Oriental.  The  constitution  restricted  voting,  made  Roman  Catholi- 
cism the  official  religion,  and  divided  the  territory  into  nine  ad- 
ministrative jurisdictions  known  as  departments  (see  Constitutional 
Background,  ch.  4). 

Beginnings  of  Independent  Life,  1830-52 

The  First  Presidents,  1830-38 

At  the  time  of  independence,  Uruguay  had  an  estimated  popu- 
lation of  just  under  75,000,  of  which  less  than  20  percent  resided 
in  Montevideo,  the  capital.  Indeed,  the  new  nation  was  born  with 
most  of  its  population  scattered  throughout  the  countryside.  Polit- 
ical power  centered  on  local  leaders,  or  caudillos,  who  attracted 
followers  because  of  their  power,  bravery,  or  wealth.  There  were 


11 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

three  major  caudillos  at  the  time  of  independence:  Rivera,  Oribe, 
and  Lavalleja.  The  first  two  were  later  elected  presidents,  Rivera 
from  1830  to  1835  and  from  1838  to  1843  and  Oribe  from  1835 
to  1838.  Their  rivalry,  which  turned  violent,  led  to  the  formation 
of  the  first  political  groups,  known  as  Colorados  and  Blancos 
because  of  the  red  and  white  hatbands,  respectively,  worn  dur- 
ing armed  clashes  beginning  in  1836.  The  groups  would  subse- 
quently become  the  Colorado  Party  and  the  National  Party  (the 
Blancos). 

During  the  1830-38  period,  the  economy  came  to  depend  in- 
creasingly on  cattle,  on  the  proliferation  of  saladeros  (meat- salting 
establishments),  and  on  the  export  of  salted  beef  and  leather.  But 
political  instability  was  the  most  significant  feature  of  this  period. 
Caudillos  and  their  followers  were  mobilized  because  of  disputes 
arising  from  deficient  land  demarcation  between  absentee  land- 
owners and  squatters  and  between  rightful  owners  and  Artigas's 
followers  who  were  granted  land  seized  by  Artigas.  Rivera  re- 
mained in  the  countryside  for  most  of  his  presidency,  during  which 
Lavalleja  organized  three  unsuccessful  rebellions.  Rivera  was  fol- 
lowed as  president  by  Oribe,  one  of  the  Thirty-Three  Heroes,  but 
they  began  to  quarrel  after  Oribe  permitted  Lavalleja  and  his  fol- 
lowers to  return  from  Brazil.  Rivera  initiated  a  revolutionary  move- 
ment against  President  Oribe,  who,  aided  by  Argentine  troops, 
defeated  Rivera's  forces  at  the  Battle  of  Carpinteria  on  Septem- 
ber 19,  1836.  In  June  1838,  however,  the  Colorados,  led  by  Rivera, 
defeated  Oribe 's  Blanco  forces;  Oribe  then  went  into  exile  in  Buenos 
Aires. 

Internationally,  the  new  territory  was  at  the  mercy  of  the  in- 
fluence of  its  neighbors.  This  resulted  from  its  lack  of  clearly  de- 
fined borders,  as  well  as  from  Rivera's  ties  with  Brazil  and  Oribe 's 
with  Argentina. 

Rivera  again  became  the  elected  president  in  March  1838.  In 
1839  President  Rivera,  with  the  support  of  the  French  and  of 
Argentine  emigres,  issued  a  declaration  of  war  against  Argentina's 
dictator,  Juan  Manuel  de  Rosas,  and  drove  Rosas 's  forces  from 
Uruguay.  The  French,  however,  reached  an  agreement  with  Rosas 
and  withdrew  their  troops  from  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  region  in 
1840,  leaving  Montevideo  vulnerable  to  Oribe 's  Argentine-backed 
forces.  For  three  years,  the  locus  of  the  struggle  was  on  Argen- 
tine territory.  Oribe  and  the  Blancos  allied  themselves  with  Argen- 
tina's federalists,  while  Rivera  and  the  Colorados  sided  with 
Argentina's  rival  unitary  forces,  who  favored  the  centralization  of 
the  Argentine  state.  In  1842  Oribe  defeated  Rivera  and  later,  on 


12 


—  m^"^Ll:: 

Montevideo's  Thirty-Three  Heroes  Obelisk 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 

February  16,  1843,  laid  siege  to  Montevideo,  then  governed  by 
the  Colorados. 

The  Great  War,  1843-52 

Oribe's  siege  of  Montevideo  marked  the  beginning  of  the  Great 
War  (Guerra  Grande,  1843-52).  The  Great  War  centered  on  the 
nine-year-long  siege  of  Montevideo,  described  by  Alexandre  Dumas 
as  a  "new  Troy,"  although  the  city  itself  suffered  relatively  little 
from  the  war.  Britain  had  saved  Montevideo  at  the  outset  by  allow- 
ing the  city  to  receive  supplies.  During  the  Great  War,  there  were 
two  governments  in  Uruguay:  the  Colorados  at  Montevideo  (the 
so-called  government  of  the  "defense")  and  the  Blancos  at  Cerrito 
(Little  Hill),  a  promontory  near  Montevideo. 

The  intervention  first  of  France  (1838-42)  and  then  of  Britain 
and  France  (1843-50)  transformed  the  conflict  into  an  international 
war.  First,  British  and  French  naval  forces  temporarily  blockaded 
the  port  of  Buenos  Aires  in  December  1845.  Then,  the  British  and 
French  fleets  protected  Montevideo  at  sea.  French  and  Italian 
legionnaires  (the  latter  led  by  Giuseppe  Garibaldi)  participated, 
along  with  the  Colorados,  in  the  defense  of  the  city. 

Historians  believe  that  the  reason  for  the  French  and  British  inter- 
vention in  the  conflict  was  to  restore  normalcy  to  commerce  in  the 


13 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

region  and  to  ensure  free  navigation  along  the  Rio  Parana  and  Rio 
Uruguay,  thus  guaranteeing  access  to  provincial  markets  without 
Buenos  Aires 's  interference.  Their  efforts  were  ineffective,  however, 
and  by  1849  the  two  European  powers  had  tired  of  the  war.  In 
1850  both  withdrew  after  signing  a  treaty  that  represented  a  tri- 
umph for  Rosas  of  Argentina. 

It  appeared  that  Montevideo  would  finally  fall.  But  an  uprising 
against  Rosas  led  by  Justo  Jose  de  Urquiza,  governor  of  Argen- 
tina's Entre  Rios  Province,  with  the  assistance  of  a  small  Uruguayan 
force,  changed  the  situation.  They  defeated  Oribe  in  1851,  there- 
by ending  the  armed  conflict  in  Uruguayan  territory  and  leaving 
the  Colorados  in  full  control  of  the  country.  Brazil  then  intervened 
in  Uruguay  in  May  1851  on  behalf  of  the  besieged  Colorados,  sup- 
porting them  with  money  and  naval  forces.  With  Rosas 's  fall  from 
power  in  Argentina  in  February  1852,  the  siege  of  Montevideo  was 
lifted  by  Urquiza' s  pro-Colorado  forces. 

Montevideo  rewarded  Brazil's  vital  financial  and  military  sup- 
port by  signing  five  treaties  in  1851  that  provided  for  perpetual 
alliance  between  the  two  countries,  confirming  Brazil's  right  to  in- 
tervene in  Uruguay's  internal  affairs;  extradition  of  runaway  slaves 
and  criminals  from  Uruguay  (during  the  war,  both  the  Blancos 
and  the  Colorados  had  abolished  slavery  in  Uruguay  in  order  to 
mobilize  the  former  slaves  to  reinforce  their  respective  military 
forces);  joint  navigation  on  the  Rio  Uruguay  and  its  tributaries; 
tax  exemption  on  cattle  and  salted  meat  exports  (the  cattle  indus- 
try was  devastated  by  the  war);  acknowledgment  of  debt  to  Brazil 
for  aid  against  the  Blancos;  and  Brazil's  commitment  to  granting 
an  additional  loan.  Borders  were  also  recognized,  whereby  Uruguay 
renounced  its  territorial  claims  north  of  the  Rio  Cuareim  (thereby 
reducing  its  boundaries  to  about  176,000  kilometers)  and  recog- 
nized Brazil's  exclusive  right  of  navigation  in  the  Laguna  Merin 
and  the  Rio  Yaguaron,  the  natural  border  between  the  countries. 

The  Struggle  for  Survival,  1852-75 
Intervention  by  Neighboring  Countries 

After  Rosas  went  into  exile  in  Britain  in  1852,  internal  strife  in 
Argentina  continued  until  1361 ,  when  the  country  was  finally  uni- 
fied. Uruguay  was  affected  because  each  Uruguayan  faction  ex- 
pressed solidarity  with  various  contenders  in  Argentina  or  was,  in 
turn,  supported  by  them. 

Brazil's  intervention  in  Uruguay  was  intensified  both  because 
of  Argentina's  temporary  weakness  and  because  of  Brazil's  desire 
to  expand  its  frontiers  to  the  Rio  de  la  Plata.  Brazil  intervened 


14 


Montevideo's  Old  City,  ca.  1900 
Courtesy  Prints  and  Photographs  Division,  Library  of  Congress 

militarily  in  Uruguay  as  often  as  it  deemed  necessary,  in  accor- 
dance with  the  1851  treaties.  In  1865  the  Triple  Alliance — formed 
by  the  emperor  of  Brazil,  the  president  of  Argentina,  and  General 
Venancio  Flores  (1854-55,  1865-66),  the  Uruguayan  head  of 
government  whom  they  both  had  helped  to  gain  power — declared 
war  on  Paraguay.  Francisco  Solano  Lopez,  Paraguay's  megalo- 
maniac dictator,  had  been  verbally  ratding  his  saber  against 
Argentina  and  Brazil.  The  conflict  lasted  five  years  (1865-70)  and 
ended  with  the  invasion  of  Paraguay  and  its  defeat  by  the  armies 
of  the  three  countries.  Montevideo,  which  was  used  as  a  supply 
station  by  the  Brazilian  navy,  experienced  a  period  of  prosperity 
and  relative  calm  during  the  war. 

After  the  war  with  Paraguay,  the  balance  of  power  was  restored 
between  Argentina  and  Brazil,  the  guarantors  of  Uruguayan  in- 
dependence. Thus,  Uruguay  was  able  to  internalize  its  political 
struggles,  an  indispensable  condition  for  consolidation  of  its  in- 
dependence. 

Evolution  of  the  Economy  and  Society 

After  the  Great  War,  immigration  increased,  primarily  from 
Spain  and  Italy.  Brazilians  and  Britons  also  flocked  to  Uruguay 
to  snap  up  hundreds  of  estancias  (ranches).  The  proportion  of  the 


15 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

immigrant  population  in  Uruguay  rose  from  48  percent  in  1860 
to  68  percent  in  1868.  Many  were  Basques  of  Spanish  or  French 
nationality.  In  the  1870s,  another  100,000  Europeans  settled  in 
Uruguay.  By  1879  the  total  population  of  the  country  was  over 
438,000.  Montevideo,  where  approximately  one-fourth  of  the  popu- 
lation lived,  expanded  and  improved  its  services.  Gas  services  were 
initiated  in  1853,  the  first  bank  in  1857,  sewage  works  in  1860, 
a  telegraph  in  1866,  railroads  to  the  interior  in  1869,  and  running 
water  in  1871.  The  creation  in  1870  of  the  typographers'  union, 
the  first  permanent  workers'  organization,  was  soon  followed  by 
the  establishment  of  other  unions.  Montevideo  remained  mainly 
a  commercial  center.  Thanks  to  its  natural  harbor,  it  was  able  to 
serve  as  a  trade  center  for  goods  moving  to  and  from  Argentina, 
Brazil,  and  Paraguay.  The  cities  of  Paysandu  and  Salto,  on  the 
Rio  Uruguay,  complemented  this  role. 

After  the  Great  War,  livestock  raising  recovered  and  prospered. 
Improvements  in  breeding  techniques  and  fencing  were  introduced, 
and  between  1860  and  1868  sheep  breeding,  stimulated  by  Euro- 
pean demand,  expanded  from  3  million  head  to  17  million  head. 
A  group  of  modernizing  hacendados  (landowners),  a  large  num- 
ber of  whom  were  foreigners,  was  responsible  for  this  change.  In 
1871  they  established  the  Rural  Association  (Asociacion  Rural)  to 
improve  livestock-raising  techniques.  The  association  developed 
a  reputation  for  defending  rural  traditions  and  exerting  consider- 
able influence  on  policy  makers. 

Meat-salting  enterprises  were  the  main  stimulus  for  the  indus- 
trialization of  livestock  products.  In  1865  the  Liebig  Meat  Extract 
Company  of  London  opened  a  meat-extract  factory  at  Fray  Bentos 
on  the  Rio  Uruguay  to  supply  the  European  armies,  thus  initiat- 
ing diversification  in  the  sector.  This  type  of  meat  processing, 
however,  was  dependent  on  cheap  cattle.  As  the  price  of  cattle  in- 
creased, the  meat-extract  industry  declined,  along  with  the  saladeros, 
which  prepared  salted  and  sun-dried  meat.  Cuba  and  Brazil  were 
the  main  purchasers  of  salted  meat;  Europe,  of  meat  extract;  and 
the  United  States  and  Europe,  of  leather  and  wool. 

Caudillos  and  Political  Stability 

Until  1865  the  prevailing  political  idea  was  fusion  {fusion),  mean- 
ing unity  among  Uruguayans,  the  putting  aside  of  the  colors  and 
banners  that  divided  them  in  the  past.  This  idea  inspired  the 
administrations  of  Juan  Francisco  Giro  (1852-53),  Gabriel  Pereira 
(1856-60),  and  Bernardo  Berro  (1860-64).  Hatred  and  rivalry  flared 
up,  however,  preventing  harmony.  Giro  was  forced  to  resign. 
Pereira  suppressed  almost  six  coup  attempts,  and  Berro,  the  last 


16 


Historical  Setting 


Blanco  president  until  1958,  confronted  a  revolution  led  by  Colo- 
rado Venancio  Flores,  who  took  power  with  the  support  of  Brazil 
and  Buenos  Aires.  However,  General  Flores,  who  had  been  com- 
manding the  armed  forces  instead  of  governing  the  country  since 
that  March,  was  assassinated  in  Montevideo  in  1868,  on  the  same 
day  that  Berro  was  assassinated. 

During  the  period  preceding  the  Great  War,  the  long  conflict 
between  church  and  state  also  began.  It  involved  Freemasons  in 
government  circles  and  resulted  in  the  expulsion  of  the  Jesuits  in 
1859  (they  were  allowed  to  return  in  1865)  and  the  secularization 
of  cemeteries  in  1861.  Until  then  the  church  had  almost  exclusive 
control  over  the  cemeteries. 

The  constitutional  government  of  General  Lorenzo  Batlle  y  Grau 
(1868-72)  was  forced  to  suppress  an  insurrection  led  by  the  National 
Party.  After  two  years  of  struggle,  a  peace  agreement  was  signed 
in  1872  that  gave  the  Blancos  a  share  in  the  emoluments  and 
functions  of  government,  through  control  of  four  of  the  country's 
departments.  This  establishment  of  the  policy  of  coparticipation 
(coparticipacion)  represented  the  search  for  a  new  formula  of  com- 
promise, based  on  the  coexistence  of  the  party  in  power  and  the 
party  in  opposition. 

A  permanent  break  in  the  cycle  of  near  anarchy  and  repression 
was  anticipated  when  Jose  Ellauri  (1872-75)  was  elected  president. 
His  administration  was  characterized  by  the  predominance  of 
university  men  over  caudillos.  A  number  of  them,  known  as  the 
"Girondists  of  73,"  were  sent  to  the  General  Assembly.  Unfor- 
tunately, however,  the  ensuing  economic  crisis  and  the  weakness 
of  civil  power  paved  the  way  for  a  period  of  militarism. 

Modern  Uruguay,  1875-1903 
Militarism,  1875-90 

Between  1875  and  1886,  political  parties  headed  by  caudillos  or 
university  men  declined,  and  the  military  became  the  center  of 
power.  A  transition  period  (1886-90)  followed,  during  which  poli- 
ticians began  recovering  lost  ground,  and  there  was  some  civilian 
participation  in  government.  Nevertheless,  political  parties  dur- 
ing this  period  were  not  parties  in  the  modern  sense  of  the  term. 
Nor,  however,  was  the  army  a  professional  institution  despite  its 
successful  foreign  and  domestic  campaigns. 

Because  of  serious  disturbances,  Ellauri  was  forced  to  resign  in 
1875.  His  successor,  Jose  Pedro  Varela  (1875-76),  curtailed  liberties, 
arrested  opposition  leaders  and  deported  the  most  notable  among 


17 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


them  to  Cuba,  and  successfully  quelled  an  armed  rebellion.  At  the 
beginning  of  1876,  Colonel  Lorenzo  Latorre  (1876-80)  assumed 
power;  he  was  appointed  constitutional  president  in  1879,  but  the 
following  year  he  resigned,  after  declaring  that  Uruguayans  were 
"ungovernable,"  and  moved  to  Argentina. 

Colonel  Maximo  Santos  (1882-86)  was  appointed  president  in 
1882  by  a  General  Assembly  elected  under  his  pressure,  and  his 
political  entourage  named  him  leader  of  the  Colorado  Party.  In 
1886  Santos,  who  had  been  promoted  to  general,  suppressed  an 
insurrection  led  by  the  opposition.  After  an  attempt  against  his  life, 
however,  he  too  resigned  and  went  to  live  in  Europe. 

During  this  authoritarian  period  (1875-86),  the  government  took 
steps  toward  the  organization  of  the  country  as  a  modern  state  and 
encouraged  its  economic  and  social  transformation.  Pressure 
groups,  particularly  businessmen,  hacendados,  and  industrialists, 
were  organized  and  had  a  strong  influence  on  government,  as 
demonstrated  by  their  support  of  numerous  measures  taken  by  the 
state. 

In  the  international  realm,  the  country  improved  its  ties  with 
Britain.  Loans  increased  significantiy  after  the  1870s,  when  the  first 
one  was  granted.  In  1876  British  investors  acquired  the  national 
railroad  company,  the  North  Tramway  and  Railway  Company. 
They  later  dominated  construction  of  railroads  and  continued  their 
policy  of  ensuring  control  over,  and  concessions  to,  some  essential 
services  in  Montevideo,  such  as  gas  (1872)  and  running  water 
(1879).  Uruguay's  adoption  of  the  gold  standard  facilitated  com- 
mercial transactions  between  the  two  countries. 

Under  Latorre 's  administration,  order  was  restored  in  the  coun- 
tryside. His  government  vigorously  repressed  delinquency  and 
unemployment  (those  without  jobs  were  considered  "vagrants") 
to  protect  farmers  and  ranchers.  Fencing  of  the  countryside  stimu- 
lated modernization  of  the  system.  Barbed  wired  was  such  an 
indispensable  element  for  livestock  improvement  and  for  the 
establishment  of  accurate  property  boundaries  that  an  1875  law 
exempted  imports  of  barbed  wire  from  customs  duties.  This  mea- 
sure was  accompanied  by  the  approval  of  the  Rural  Code  (1875), 
drawn  up  with  the  participation  of  the  Rural  Association.  The  code 
ensured  land  and  livestock  ownership  and  thus  social  order. 

The  government  adopted  a  number  of  measures  to  promote 
national  industrial  development.  Most  important  was  a  series  of 
customs  laws  in  1875,  1886,  and  1888  raising  import  duties  on 
products  that  could  be  manufactured  in  the  country,  thus  protect- 
ing indigenous  industry.  The  Latorre  government  also  improved 
the  means  of  transportation  and  communications,  giving  tax  and 


18 


Historical  Setting 


other  concessions  for  the  construction  of  railroads,  whose  network 
doubled  in  size  in  ten  years.  The  state  also  reorganized  and  took 
over  the  postal  service  and  connected  all  departmental  capitals  by 
telegraph. 

Education  reform  authored  by  Varela  and  implemented  in  1877 
under  the  Latorre  administration  established  free  compulsory 
primary  education.  Reform  also  reached  the  University  of  the 
Republic  (also  known  as  the  University  of  Montevideo — established 
in  1849  and  the  country's  only  university  until  1984),  where  the 
medical  and  the  mathematics  faculties  were  created  in  1876  and 
1877,  respectively. 

The  secularization  process  also  continued  during  this  period. 
Under  the  pretext  of  needing  to  deal  with  the  chaos  in  parochial 
archives,  Latorre  created  the  Civil  Register  (1876),  which  trans- 
ferred to  the  state  the  registration  of  births,  deaths,  and  marriages. 
Under  the  Santos  administration,  the  Law  of  Mandatory  Civil 
Marriage  (1885)  established  that  only  marriages  performed  in 
accordance  with  this  law  would  be  considered  valid. 

The  Return  of  Civilians 

General  Maximo  Tajes  (1886-90),  who  was  appointed  president 
by  the  General  Assembly,  tried  to  restore  the  constitution  and 
remove  the  military  chiefs  who  had  supported  Santos.  During  the 
Tajes  administration,  civilian  political  activity  resumed.  At  the  end 
of  the  Tajes  term,  Julio  Herrera  y  Obes  was  elected  president 
(1890-94).  Herrera  y  Obes  belonged  to  the  Colorado  Party,  had 
been  an  adviser  to  his  predecessor,  and  was  instrumental  in  the 
transition  process  that  displaced  the  military  from  power.  He 
selected  his  aides  from  among  a  small  group  of  friends  and  was 
convinced  that  the  executive  had  to  play  a  leading  role  in  elections 
and  the  makeup  of  the  General  Assembly.  This  policy,  called  the 
"directing  influence,"  was  resisted  by  a  sector  of  the  Colorado  Party 
led  by  Jose  Batlle  y  Ordonez,  son  of  the  former  president,  Lorenzo 
Batlle  y  Grau. 

In  1894,  after  much  internal  debate,  the  General  Assembly 
appointed  Juan  Idiarte  Borda  (1894-97),  a  member  of  the  inner 
circle  of  the  departing  administration,  as  the  new  president.  But 
Herrera  y  Obes  and  Borda  had  succeeded  in  irritating  the  National 
Party,  when  the  latter  was  granted  control  of  only  three  of  the  four 
departments  agreed  on  in  the  1872  pact  between  the  two  rival 
parties. 

In  1897  discontent  led  to  an  armed  uprising  by  Blanco  forces. 
The  insurrection  was  led  by  Aparicio  Saravia,  a  caudillo  from  a 
ranching  family  originally  from  the  Brazilian  state  of  Rio  Grande 


19 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


do  Sul  who  was  involved  in  military  and  political  affairs  on  both 
sides  of  the  border.  The  Saravia  revolution  raised  the  flag  of  elec- 
toral guarantees,  the  secret  ballot,  and  proportional  representation. 
Military  action  had  not  yet  decided  the  situation  when  President 
Borda  was  assassinated.  The  president  of  the  Senate  (the  upper 
house  of  the  General  Assembly),  Juan  Lindolfo  Cuestas  (1897- 
1903),  served  as  provisional  president  until  1899,  when  he  was 
elected  constitutional  president.  Cuestas  quickly  signed  a  peace 
agreement  with  the  National  Party,  giving  it  control  over  six  of 
Uruguay's  departments  and  promising  all  citizens  their  political 
rights.  An  anticlericalist,  Cuestas  placed  restrictions  on  the  exer- 
cise of  Roman  Catholicism  and  tried  to  prevent  admission  to  the 
country  of  friars  and  priests. 

A  majority  of  the  members  of  the  General  Assembly,  who  had 
ties  to  the  Herrera  y  Obes  faction,  submitted  another  presidential 
candidate  in  1898  for  the  scheduled  election.  Cuestas,  unwilling 
to  give  up  power,  led  a  coup  d'etat.  He  included  members  of  the 
opposition  in  his  government  in  a  rudimentary  attempt  at  propor- 
tional representation.  Late  that  same  year,  the  Cuestas  regime 
promulgated  the  Permanent  Civil  Register  Law,  dealing  with  elec- 
toral matters,  and  the  Elections  Law,  formally  establishing  the  prin- 
ciple of  minority  representation.  Through  this  legislation,  the 
opposition  gained  access  to  one-third  of  the  seats  if  it  obtained  one- 
fourth  of  the  total  votes. 

The  political  consensus  achieved  by  Cuestas  resulted  in  the  unani- 
mous support  by  the  General  Assembly  for  his  candidacy  and  ap- 
pointment as  constitutional  president  in  1899.  In  fact,  however, 
political  peace  was  an  illusion.  There  were,  in  effect,  two  coun- 
tries, one  Blanco  and  one  Colorado.  President  Cuestas  had  to  send 
an  envoy  to  caudillo  Saravia,  near  the  border  with  Brazil,  in  order 
to  coordinate  government  action.  This  precarious  balance  would 
break  down  in  1903  when  Batlle  y  Ordonez  took  power. 

In  spite  of  political  and  economic  fluctuations,  the  flow  of  im- 
migrants continued.  From  the  1870s  to  the  1910s,  Uruguay's  popu- 
lation doubled  to  just  over  1  million  inhabitants,  30  percent  of  whom 
lived  in  Montevideo.  Montevideo  also  continued  to  experience 
modernization,  including  the  installation  of  a  telephone  system 
(1878)  and  public  lighting  (1886).  At  the  same  time,  the  euphoria 
and  speculation  of  the  1870s  and  1880s  saw  a  proliferation  of  banks 
and  corporations  and  a  stimulation  of  land  sales,  as  well  as  the  con- 
struction of  multifamily  dwellings. 

The  economic  crisis  of  1890  was  a  traumatic  event  for  Uruguayan 
society.  Bankruptcies  followed  one  after  another,  and  the  banking 
system  saw  the  collapse  of  a  key  banking  institution,  created  by 


20 


Historical  Setting 


a  Spanish  financier,  which  had  served  the  needs  of  the  state  and 
promoted  production  and  construction. 

The  ruling  elite  felt  the  impact,  and  some  of  its  more  progres- 
sive sectors  directed  their  efforts  to  the  creation  of  a  development 
model  for  the  country.  They  were  aware  of  both  the  need  to  en- 
courage agricultural  and  industrial  development  and  the  need  to 
redefine  the  limits  of  the  state.  The  growing  importance  of  British 
investment  had  stimulated  the  rise  of  economic  nationalism  and 
had,  by  1898,  provoked  more  active  state  intervention. 

State  intervention  in  the  economy  continued  in  1896  when  the 
electric  utility  company  was  transferred  to  the  municipality  of 
Montevideo  and  the  Bank  of  Uruguay  (Banco  de  la  Republica 
Oriental  del  Uruguay — BROU)  was  created  as  an  autonomous 
entity  (autonomous  agency  or  state  enterprise;  see  Glossary). 
Moreover,  under  Cuestas's  administration,  the  state  undertook  con- 
struction of  the  modern  harbor  of  Montevideo,  in  reaction  to  the 
new  facility  in  Buenos  Aires,  which  had  absorbed  part  of  the  river 
traffic  with  Paraguay  and  the  Argentine  littoral.  Nevertheless,  the 
nationalization  of  economic  activities  and  the  creation  of  state  enter- 
prises did  not  fully  gather  momentum  until  the  administration  of 
Batlle  y  Ordonez. 

The  New  Country,  1903-33 
Batlle  y  Ordonez  and  the  Modern  State 

The  election  of  Jose  Batlle  y  Ordonez  as  the  first  Uruguayan 
president  in  the  twentieth  century  (1903-07,  1911-15)  marked  the 
beginning  of  a  period  of  extraordinary  change  in  the  country.  The 
son  of  former  President  Lorenzo  Batlle  y  Grau,  Batlle  y  Ordonez 
was  a  member  of  the  Colorado  Party,  founder  of  the  newspaper 
El  Dia  (in  1886),  and  an  active  opponent  of  militarism. 

The  dominant  political  event  during  the  first  administration  of 
Batlle  y  Ordonez  was  another  National  Party  insurrection  in  1904, 
led  by  Saravia.  After  nine  months  of  fierce  fighting  and  Saravia's 
death,  it  ended  with  the  Treaty  of  Acegua  (1904).  The  civil  war 
triumph  of  Batlle  y  Ordonez  and  the  Colorados  meant  the  end  of 
the  coparticipation  politics  that  began  in  1872,  the  political  and 
administrative  unification  of  the  country,  the  consolidation  of  the 
state,  and,  most  profoundly,  the  end  of  the  cycle  of  civil  wars  that 
had  persisted  throughout  the  nineteenth  century. 

The  period's  most  significant  economic  change  occurred  in  meat 
processing.  In  1905  the  first  shipment  of  frozen  beef,  produced 
by  a  refrigeration  plant  (Jrigorifico)  established  by  local  investors 
two  years  before,  was  exported  to  London  in  a  refrigerated  ship. 


21 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Uruguay  now  entered  the  age  of  refrigeration,  making  possible  the 
diversification  of  one  of  its  main  export  items  and  giving  the  country 
access  to  new  markets.  With  the  inauguration  of  the  modernized 
port  of  Montevideo  in  1909,  Uruguay  could  compete  with  Buenos 
Aires  as  a  regional  trade  center. 

Claudio  Williman  (1907-11),  the  president's  handpicked  can- 
didate, succeeded  Batlle  y  Ordonez,  who  sailed  for  Europe,  where 
he  spent  the  next  four  years  studying  governmental  systems.  In 
some  respects,  Williman' s  administration  was  considered  more  con- 
servative than  that  of  Batlle  y  Ordonez,  although  Batllists  main- 
tained their  political  influence.  Williman  tried  to  ensure  political 
peace  by  enacting  electoral  laws  in  1907  and  1910  that  increased 
political  representation  of  minority  opposition  parties.  Williman 
also  ensured  peace  with  Uruguay's  northern  neighbor  by  signing 
a  border  treaty  with  Brazil,  thereby  putting  an  end  to  pending  liti- 
gation and  disputes  dating  back  half  a  century. 

The  National  Party,  disappointed  with  Williman 's  electoral  laws 
and  with  the  announcement  that  Batlle  y  Ordonez  would  once  again 
run  for  president,  did  not  participate  in  the  elections  held  in  1910. 
This  helped  foster  the  emergence  of  two  new  political  parties:  the 
Catholic-oriented  Civic  Union  of  Uruguay  (Union  Civica  del 
Uruguay — UCU)  and  the  Marxist-inspired  Socialist  Party  of  Uru- 
guay (Partido  Socialista  del  Uruguay — PSU).  Church  and  state 
relations  also  underwent  changes.  The  government  passed  a  divorce 
law  in  1907,  and  in  1909  it  eliminated  religious  education  in  pub- 
lic schools. 

In  1911  Batlle  y  Ordonez  reassumed  the  presidency.  A  non- 
Marxist  social  democrat,  he  set  about  modernizing  the  country, 
taking  into  account  the  aspirations  of  emerging  social  groups,  in- 
cluding industrialists,  workers,  and  the  middle  class.  Writing  and 
promoting  progressive  social  legislation,  Batlle  y  Ordonez  fought 
for  the  eight-hour  workday  (enacted  in  1915  under  the  adminis- 
tration of  his  successor),  unemployment  compensation  (1914),  and 
numerous  pieces  of  social  legislation.  Some  of  these  would  be  ap- 
proved years  later,  such  as  retirement  pensions  (1919)  and  occupa- 
tional safety  (1920)  (see  Batllism,  ch.  3). 

Batlle  y  Ordonez  firmly  believed  that  the  principal  public  ser- 
vices had  to  be  in  the  hands  of  the  state  to  avoid  foreign  remit- 
tances that  weakened  the  balance  of  payments  and  to  facilitate 
domestic  capital  accumulation.  In  a  relatively  short  period  of  time, 
his  administration  established  a  significant  number  of  autonomous 
entities.  In  1911  it  nationalized  BROU,  a  savings  and  loan  insti- 
tution that  monopolized  the  printing  of  money.  In  1912  the  govern- 
ment created  the  State  Electric  Power  Company,  monopolizing 


22 


Contrasting  buildings  in  Montevideo's  Old  City 
Courtesy  Edmundo  Flores 


23 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


electric  power  generation  and  distribution  in  the  country;  it  na- 
tionalized the  Mortgage  Bank  of  Uruguay;  and  it  founded  three 
industrial  institutes  for  geology  and  drilling  (coal  and  hydrocarbon 
explorations),  industrial  chemistry,  and  fisheries.  In  1914  it  pur- 
chased the  North  Tramway  and  Railway  Company,  later  to  be- 
come the  State  Railways  Administration. 

Attempts  to  change  the  agrarian  productive  structure  were  not 
as  successful.  Influenced  by  United  States  economist  Henry  George, 
Batlle  y  Ordonez  thought  that  he  could  combat  extensive  landhold- 
ings  by  applying  a  progressive  tax  on  land  use  and  a  surcharge 
on  inheritance  taxes.  The  agrarian  reform  plan  also  contemplated 
promoting  colonization  and  farming.  Very  little  was  accomplished 
in  this  regard,  however,  partly  because  of  the  opposition  of  large 
landowners  who  created  a  pressure  group,  the  Rural  Federation 
(Federation  Rural),  to  fight  Batlle  y  Ordonez's  policies.  The  govern- 
ment did  make  one  important  accomplishment  with  regard  to 
agriculture,  namely,  the  creation  of  a  series  of  government  insti- 
tutes dedicated  to  technological  research  and  development  in  the 
fields  of  livestock  raising,  dairying,  horticulture,  forestation,  seeds, 
and  fodder. 

The  government  adopted  a  protectionist  policy  for  industry,  im- 
posing tariffs  on  foreign  products,  favoring  machinery  and  raw 
materials  imports,  and  granting  exclusive  licensing  privileges  to 
those  who  started  a  new  industry.  Indigenous  companies  sprang 
up,  but  foreign  capital — especially  from  the  United  States  and 
Britain — also  took  advantage  of  the  legislation  and  came  to  con- 
trol the  meat  industry.  The  growth  of  the  frigorifico  meat-processing 
industry  also  stimulated  the  interbreeding  of  livestock,  Uruguay's 
main  source  of  wealth. 

Education  policy  was  designed  to  take  into  account  the  continu- 
ous inflow  of  European  migrants.  Although  it  fluctuated,  immigra- 
tion was  significant  until  1930.  Furthermore,  education  was  a  key 
to  mobility  for  the  middle  classes.  The  state  actively  sought  to  ex- 
pand education  to  the  greatest  number  of  people  by  approving  free 
high  school  education  in  1916  and  creating  departmental  high 
schools  throughout  the  country  in  1912.  A  "feminine  section"  was 
created  to  foster  mass  attendance  of  women  at  the  University  of 
the  Republic,  where  the  number  of  departments  continued  to 
expand. 

The  secularization  process,  initiated  during  the  second  half  of 
the  nineteenth  century,  was  accelerated  by  Batlle  y  Ordonez's  anti- 
clericalism.  Uruguay  banned  crucifixes  in  state  hospitals  by  1906 
and  eliminated  references  to  God  and  the  Gospel  in  public  oaths 
in  1907.  Divorce  laws  caused  a  confrontation  between  church  and 


24 


Historical  Setting 


state.  In  addition  to  the  1907  and  1910  laws  (divorce  with  cause 
and  by  mutual  agreement),  a  law  was  passed  in  1912  allowing 
women  to  file  for  divorce  without  a  specific  cause,  simply  because 
they  wanted  to. 

Batlle  y  Ordonez  also  proposed  the  institutional  reorganization 
of  government  in  1913.  Essentially,  he  wanted  to  replace  the  pres- 
idency with  a  nine-member  collegial  executive  {colegiado)  inspired 
by  the  Swiss  model  (see  Constitutional  Background,  ch.  4).  This 
proposal  caused  an  immediate  split  in  the  Colorado  Party.  One 
sector  opposed  the  political  reform  and  also  feared  some  of  Batlle 
y  Ordonez's  economic  and  social  changes.  Subsequendy,  these  dis- 
sidents, led  by  Carlos  Manini  Rfos,  founded  a  faction  known  as 
the  Colorado  Party-General  Rivera  (Riverism).  The  National 
Party,  under  Luis  Alberto  de  Herrera,  the  leading  opposition  figure 
from  1920  to  his  death  in  1959,  did  not  back  Batlle  y  Ordonez's 
proposal  either. 

Feliciano  Viera  (1915-19),  a  Colorado  who  was  more  conser- 
vative than  Batlle  y  Ordonez,  became  president  at  the  time  of  the 
debate  between  "collegialists"  and  "anticollegialists."  During  his 
mandate,  elections  were  held  for  a  constituent  assembly  (July  30, 
1916).  The  rules  for  this  election  enabled  the  National  Party  to 
ensure  incorporation  of  many  of  the  principles  it  advocated,  such 
as  the  secret  ballot,  partial  proportional  representation,  and  univer- 
sal male  suffrage. 

Batlle  y  Ordonez  and  his  political  faction  of  the  Colorados  lost 
these  first  popular  elections,  but  the  Colorados  continued  to  be  the 
majority  party,  and  the  1917  constitution,  the  country's  second, 
reflected  many  of  the  changes  that  had  taken  place  under  Batlle 
y  Ordonez.  It  separated  church  and  state,  expanded  citizens'  rights, 
established  the  secret  ballot  and  proportional  representation,  and 
banned  the  death  penalty.  It  also  created  autonomous  state  enter- 
prises in  the  areas  of  industry,  education,  and  health.  But  in  a  bit- 
ter compromise  for  Batlle  y  Ordonez,  the  executive  was  divided 
between  the  president,  who  appointed  the  ministers  of  foreign 
affairs,  war,  and  interior,  and  the  nine-member  colegiado,  the  Na- 
tional Council  of  Administration  (Consejo  Nacional  de  Adminis- 
tracion).  The  latter,  which  included  representatives  from  the  party 
that  received  the  second  highest  number  of  votes,  the  Blancos,  was 
placed  in  charge  of  the  ministries  dealing  with  economic,  educa- 
tional, and  social  policy. 

President  Viera,  like  many  of  Batlle  y  Ordonez's  followers,  inter- 
preted the  1916  electoral  defeat  as  a  direct  consequence  of  previ- 
ous policy.  He  thus  announced  a  halt  to  economic  and  social 
reforms.  Some  of  the  old  projects  as  well  as  some  new  proposals 


25 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

were  approved,  however,  such  as  restrictions  on  night  work  in  1918 
and  the  creation  in  1916  of  a  new  autonomous  entity,  the  Monte- 
video Port  Authority,  also  known  as  the  National  Administration 
of  Ports  (Administracion  Nacional  de  Puertos — ANP).  Workers' 
strikes,  however,  were  repressed  severely.  Finally,  in  1919  Viera, 
in  disagreement  with  Batlle  y  Ordonez,  founded  a  dissident  Colo- 
rado Party  faction  known  as  Vierism. 

The  Consolidation  of  Political  Democracy 

The  1920s  witnessed  electoral  struggles  in  which  the  various  par- 
ties sought  to  consolidate  the  political  peace  achieved  in  1904.  The 
National  Party  participated  actively  in  political  life,  and  although 
the  Colorado  Party  was  dominant,  its  electoral  advantage  was  slight. 
Relative  electoral  parity  and  the  still  recent  memory  of  the  last 
armed  uprising  compelled  participants  to  preserve  electoral  purity 
and  to  improve  the  corresponding  legislation.  In  1924  the  Elec- 
toral Court  was  created  to  prepare  and  control  national  elections. 
The  1917  constitution  eliminated  restrictions  on  male  suffrage  and 
required  elections  almost  every  year  to  renew  the  various  govern- 
mental bodies. 

Each  political  party  was  internally  divided  because  of  ideological, 
economic,  and  social  differences.  To  the  existing  Colorado  fac- 
tions— Riverism  and  Vierism — were  added  the  Colorado  Party  for 
Tradition  (also  known  as  Sosism),  founded  by  Julio  Maria  Sosa 
in  1925,  and  the  Advance  Grouping  (Agrupacion  Avanzar), 
founded  by  Julio  Cesar  Grauert  in  1929.  Splinter  groups  of  the 
National  Party  included  the  Radical  Blanco  Party,  founded  by 
Lorenzo  Carnelli  in  1924,  and  Social  Democracy,  founded  by 
Carlos  Quijano  in  1928.  The  small  PSU  also  split  in  1920,  and 
one  of  its  factions  formed  the  Communist  Party  of  Uruguay  (Partido 
Comunista  del  Uruguay — PCU).  The  parties  were  divided  into 
"traditional"  (Colorado  Party  and  National  Party)  and  "minor," 
or  "ideological,"  parties  (UCU,  PSU,  and  PCU).  The  former, 
by  means  of  a  1910  law  that  allowed  a  double  simultaneous  vote 
for  a  party  and  a  faction  of  the  party  (sub-lema),  became  "federa- 
tions" of  parties  with  different  agendas  and  were  thus  able  to  at- 
tract followers  from  all  sectors  of  society. 

These  contradictions  forced  Batlle  y  Ordonez  to  make  electoral 
arrangements  with  his  opponents  within  the  Colorado  Party  to  pre- 
vent the  victory  of  the  National  Party.  The  resultant  "politics  of 
compromise"  diluted  his  reformist  agenda.  Baltasar  Brum  (1919- 
23),  one  of  Batlle  y  Ordonez's  followers  and  a  former  foreign 
minister,  was  succeeded  as  president  by  a  "neutral"  Colorado,  Jose 
Serrato  (1923-27),  who  turned  over  the  office  to  a  Riverist,  Juan 
Campisteguy  (1927-31). 


26 


Historical  Setting 


It  was  difficult  for  adherents  of  Batllism  to  implement  their 
agenda  despite  having  the  occasional  support  of  other  political  sec- 
tors. Nevertheless,  additional  social  reforms  were  enacted.  In  1920 
compensation  for  accidents  in  the  workplace  and  a  six-day  work 
week  were  made  law.  In  1923  a  minimum  rural  wage  was  passed, 
although  it  was  never  enforced.  A  social  security  system  was  created 
in  1919  for  public-sector  employees,  and  the  program  was  extended 
to  the  private  sector  in  1928.  Despite  the  reforms,  a  union  move- 
ment, weak  in  numbers,  was  organized  in  several  umbrella  or- 
ganizations: the  Uruguayan  Syndicalist  Union,  encompassing 
anarcho-syndicalists  and  communists,  in  1923;  and  the  communist 
General  Confederation  of  Uruguayan  Workers,  in  1929. 

The  only  state  enterprise  created  during  these  years  reflected  the 
difficulties  in  expanding  state  control  over  industry  because  of  oppo- 
sition from  the  conservatives.  Ranchers  complained  that  foreign 
refrigeration  plants,  which  had  established  quotas  for  shipments 
and  for  access  of  meat  to  the  London  market,  did  not  pay  a  fair 
price  for  cattle.  In  1928  the  government  created  National  Refriger- 
ating (Frigonfico  Nacional — Frigonal)  as  a  ranchers'  cooperative 
supported  by  the  state  and  governed  by  a  board  made  up  of 
representatives  from  the  government,  the  Rural  Association,  and 
the  Rural  Federation. 

Although  the  country  had  suffered  the  immediate  consequences 
of  the  post- World  War  I  crisis,  a  period  of  recovery  had  quickly 
followed.  It  was  characterized  by  growing  prosperity  sustained 
mainly  by  United  States  loans.  A  continued  increase  in  popula- 
tion accompanied  economic  prosperity.  The  1920s  saw  the  arrival 
of  the  last  great  wave  of  immigrants,  consisting  mainly  of  Syrians, 
Lebanese,  and  East  Europeans.  Between  1908  and  1930,  Monte- 
video's population  doubled. 

In  1930  Uruguay  celebrated  the  centennial  of  the  promulgation 
of  its  first  constitution  and  won  its  first  World  Cup  in  soccer.  Elec- 
tions were  held  that  year,  the  results  of  which  were  to  presage 
difficulties,  however.  Batlle  y  Ordonez  died  in  1929,  leaving  no 
successor  for  his  political  group.  The  Blanco  leader,  Herrera,  was 
defeated  by  a  wide  margin  of  votes  for  the  first  time.  The  electoral 
balance  between  the  parties  had  been  broken.  By  a  few  votes,  the 
conservative  Colorado  Manini,  a  Riverist  leader  and  newspaper 
publisher,  failed  to  become  president. 

The  Conservative  Adjustment,  1931-43 

The  Terra  Era,  1931-38 

Gabriel  Terra  (1931-38),  a  "heterodox"  Batllist  who  had  differed 
with  Batlle  y  Ordonez  and  who  would  soon  distance  himself  from 


27 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


the  latter's  sons  and  followers,  became  president  in  March  1931. 
For  the  first  time,  the  Batllist  wing  of  the  Colorados  had  a  strong 
representation  in  the  colegiado. 

Terra's  inauguration  coincided  with  the  effects  of  the  Great 
Depression  and  a  worsening  of  Uruguay's  economic  and  social  sit- 
uation. Prices  of  agricultural  products  plunged.  In  1932  Britain, 
traditionally  the  major  purchaser  of  Uruguayan  exports,  began  re- 
stricting purchases  of  meat.  Uruguay's  currency  was  devalued,  and 
unemployment  grew  rapidly. 

Batllists  tried  to  implement  their  program  from  the  colegiado.  In 
1931  BROU  was  authorized  to  control  purchases  and  sales  of  for- 
eign exchange  and  to  set  exchange  rates,  a  measure  that  initially 
jeopardized  cattle  ranchers,  exporters,  and  private  banks.  In  the 
face  of  foreign-exchange  scarcity,  foreign  companies  were  forced 
to  suspend  remittances  abroad.  Limits  on  imports  were  imposed 
to  try  to  reduce  the  balance  of  payments  deficit  and  to  stimulate 
industrialization.  Furthermore,  attempts  were  made  to  reduce  the 
fiscal  deficit.  At  the  same  time,  a  political  agreement  known  as  the 
Pork  Barrel  Pact  (Pacto  del  Chinchulin)  between  the  Batllists  and 
an  emerging  sector  of  the  National  Party  opposing  Herrera  made 
possible  the  expansion  of  state  control  over  industry.  The  pact 
resulted  in  the  creation  of  the  National  Administration  of  Fuels, 
Alcohol,  and  Portland  Cement  (Administration  Nacional  de  Com- 
bustibles, Alcohol,  y  Portland — ANCAP),  a  state  enterprise  with 
a  monopoly  over  oil  refining  and  alcohol  production,  and  the  power 
to  begin  producing  portland  cement.  Unfortunately,  it  quickly 
became  a  source  of  patronage  for  the  party  faithful.  The  State  Elec- 
tric Power  Company  was  granted  a  monopoly  over  the  telephone 
system,  becoming  the  State  Electric  Power  and  Telephone  Com- 
pany (Usinas  Electricas  y  Telefonos  del  Estado). 

Social  reform  measures,  such  as  the  adoption  of  the  forty-four- 
hour  work  week,  and  the  growing  economic  crisis  alarmed  the  most 
conservative  sectors  and  affected  the  interests  of  large  cattle  ranch- 
ers, import  merchants,  foreign  capital,  and  the  population  at  large. 
The  social  climate  became  tense  as  a  result  of  the  lack  of  jobs.  There 
were  confrontations  in  which  police  and  leftists  died. 

Terra  distanced  himself  from  his  followers  and  began  a  campaign 
to  reform  the  constitution  and  eliminate  the  colegiado,  which  was 
responsible  for  making  economic  and  social  policy  and  which  Terra 
accused  of  inefficiency  and  lack  of  vision  to  overcome  the  crisis. 
He  was  supported  by  the  National  Economic  Inspection  Commit- 
tee, which  was  created  in  1929  and  encompassed  most  business 
organizations.  This  committee  proposed  restricting  statism,  ending 


28 


Historical  Setting 


implementation  of  social  legislation,  and  suspending  the  applica- 
tion of  new  taxes. 

During  the  first  months  of  1933,  when  it  became  evident  that 
Uruguay  would  have  serious  difficulties  in  paying  the  interest  on 
its  foreign  debt,  Terra  obtained  the  support  of  Herrera  and  of 
Manini  to  organize  a  coup  d'etat.  On  March  31,  1933,  Terra  dis- 
solved the  General  Assembly  and  the  colegiado  and  governed  by 
decree.  Former  President  Brum  (a  Batllist)  committed  suicide  one 
day  after  the  fall  of  the  liberal  democratic  regime.  Another  Batllist 
leader,  Grauert,  was  assassinated.  The  Terra  regime  deported 
numerous  opposition  leaders  and  imposed  press  censorship. 

In  June  1933,  elections  were  held  for  a  constituent  assembly  that 
would  be  responsible  for  reforming  the  constitution.  In  1934  the 
new  constitution  was  submitted  to  a  plebiscite,  and  although  re- 
election of  the  president  was  unconstitutional,  Terra  was  elected 
to  a  new  term.  More  than  half  of  the  electorate  participated  in  these 
elections,  distributing  their  preferences  between  parties  support- 
ing the  coup  and  those  opposing  it.  The  constitution  promulgated 
in  1934  formally  eliminated  the  colegiado  and  transferred  its  powers 
to  the  president.  The  new  constitution  restricted  the  creation  of 
autonomous  entities  by  requiring  approval  by  a  two-thirds  majority 
in  each  chamber  of  the  General  Assembly.  It  banned  usury,  recog- 
nized certain  social  rights  (e.g.,  housing  and  the  right  to  work), 
and  established  women's  suffrage.  The  cabinet  ministers  and  heads 
of  autonomous  enterprises  were  to  be  distributed  between  the  two 
parties  obtaining  the  most  votes,  in  a  two- thirds  to  one-third  ratio. 
The  Senate  was  to  be  divided  in  half  between  the  two  parties  win- 
ning the  most  votes,  thus  ensuring  control  by  the  coup  factions. 
The  Chamber  of  Representatives  was  to  be  elected  by  proportional 
representation. 

In  the  mid- 1930s,  the  opposition  tried,  unsuccessfully,  to  organize 
itself  and  resist  the  regime  in  the  face  of  persecution.  Military  and 
armed  civil  uprisings  were  suppressed.  In  1935  a  political  oppo- 
nent unsuccessfully  tried  to  assassinate  Terra.  An  attempt  to  form 
a  "popular  front,"  including  the  left  and  dissident  Colorados  and 
Blancos,  was  also  unsuccessful.  To  prevent  this  coalition,  as  well 
as  a  coalition  of  sectors  from  the  traditional  parties,  from  oppos- 
ing the  regime's  social  and  economic  policies,  a  series  of  electoral 
laws  was  promulgated  beginning  in  1934.  The  new  Political  Parties 
Law  granted  control  of  the  Colorado  and  Blanco  slogans,  or  party 
titles,  to  those  who  had  participated  in  the  elections  and  therefore 
supported  the  dictatorship. 

Support  from  ranchers,  one  of  the  sectors  most  affected  by  the 
crisis,  seemed  to  indicate  a  return  to  the  traditional  agro-exporting 


29 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


model.  However,  neither  the  "machete  dictatorship"  (an  ironic 
name  given  to  the  regime  by  the  socialist  leader  and  writer  Emilio 
Frugoni,  referring  to  Terra's  use  of  the  police  during  the  coup) 
nor  the  "March  Revolution"  (as  it  was  solemnly  called  by  its  or- 
ganizers) stressed  an  agrarian  alternative  because  unemployment 
seemed  to  call  for  a  diversification  of  the  job  market.  Moreover, 
Uruguay  was  already  an  urban  country  with  budding  industriali- 
zation. 

Terra's  economic  policies  supported  both  livestock  raising  and 
industry,  if  unevenly.  Livestock  had  stagnated — the  1930  livestock 
census  showed  fewer  animals  than  the  1908  census.  The  problem 
of  increasing  livestock  productivity  remained  unsolved,  despite 
advances  in  breeding.  Cattle  ranchers  were  granted  premiums  in 
order  to  improve  the  quality  of  herds.  Other  benefits  accorded  them 
included  tax  rebates,  debt- servicing  alternatives,  preferential  ex- 
change privileges,  and  the  effects  of  the  1935  devaluation.  At  the 
same  time,  import  limitations  adopted  in  1931  continued  in  effect, 
and  in  1935  an  industrial  franchise  law  was  passed.  Industrial 
activities  were  further  protected  by  currency  depreciation  and  the 
fall  in  salaries  caused  by  an  abundance  of  labor. 

The  Terra  government  also  attempted  to  regulate  foreign  trade. 
BROU  maintained  control  over  the  price  and  sale  of  foreign  cur- 
rency. In  1934  the  government  created  the  Honorary  Commission 
for  Imports  and  Exchange  to  control  the  allotment  of  import  quotas 
and  foreign  exchange.  The  government  used  pesos  (for  value  of 
the  peso — see  Glossary)  to  pay  the  reduced  interest  rates  on  the 
foreign  debt.  It  also  carried  out,  in  1937,  satisfactory  negotiations 
for  a  new  payment  schedule  with  the  United  States  and,  in  1939, 
with  Britain. 

In  general,  the  Terra  government  weakened  or  neutralized  eco- 
nomic nationalism  and  social  reform,  the  most  controversial  facets 
of  the  Batllist  model.  British  public-service  industries  (railroads, 
water,  gas,  and  tramways)  and  United  States  industries  (oil,  cement, 
refrigeration  plants,  and  automobiles)  that  were  established  in  the 
early  1900s  received  additional  concessions.  The  government  did 
not  privatize  existing  state  enterprises,  as  would  have  been  expected 
from  the  antistatism  espoused  by  Herrerists  and  Riverists.  State 
enterprises  were,  however,  affected  in  1936  by  a  law  that  elimi- 
nated provisions  granting  some  autonomous  state  enterprises  the 
power  to  establish  monopolies.  ANCAP  began  constructing  an  oil 
refinery,  and  in  1938  it  guaranteed  private  oil  companies  partici- 
pation in  Uruguay's  market. 

Nevertheless,  although  the  government  abolished  certain  redis- 
tributive  policies  fostered  by  social  legislation,  it  reinforced  the 


30 


Historical  Setting 


public  assistance  role  of  the  state.  It  created  "emergency  jobs"  for 
the  unemployed  through  the  National  Affordable  Housing  Insti- 
tute (1937)  and  the  Institute  for  the  Scientific  Nutrition  of  the  People 
(1937).  In  1934  legislation  was  passed  that  regulated  child  labor 
for  minors  over  twelve  years  of  age,  allowed  maternity  leave,  and 
extended  pensions  to  all  commercial  and  industrial  sectors,  including 
employers. 

The  government  also  revamped  the  education  system.  The 
University  of  the  Republic,  whose  structure  had  been  transformed 
by  the  creation  of  new  faculties  (for  example,  engineering  and 
architecture  in  1915,  chemistry  and  dentistry  in  1929,  and  eco- 
nomics in  1932),  no  longer  administered  secondary  education, 
which  in  1935  was  handed  over  to  an  autonomous  agency. 

The  foreign  policy  of  the  regime  resulted  in  a  substantial  im- 
provement of  relations  with  the  United  States  (Franklin  D. 
Roosevelt  visited  Uruguay  in  1936)  and  with  Britain.  Under  a  1935 
pact  with  Britain,  Uruguay  agreed  to  pay  its  foreign  debt,  to  pur- 
chase British  coal,  and  to  treat  British  companies  generously  in 
exchange  for  ensuring  placement  of  Uruguayan  products.  In  1935 
Uruguay  severed  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  in  the  next 
year,  with  Republican  Spain.  At  the  same  time,  however,  it  es- 
tablished closer  relations  with  Benito  Mussolini's  Italy  and  Adolf 
Hitler's  Germany.  Construction  of  a  hydroelectric  dam  at  Paso 
de  los  Toros  on  the  Rio  Negro  was  begun  in  1937  with  German 
capital,  creating  the  Embalse  del  Rio  Negro,  the  largest  artificial 
lake  in  South  America. 

In  1938  general  elections  were  held — the  first  in  which  women 
were  allowed  to  vote.  Terra  divided  his  support  between  his  son- 
in-law's  father,  Eduardo  Blanco  Acevedo,  and  his  brother-in-law, 
General  Alfredo  Baldomir.  These  candidacies  reflected  a  split  in 
Terra's  political  faction  within  the  Colorado  Party.  The  PSU  and 
PCU  joined  forces  to  vote  for  a  common  candidate,  but  the  Colo- 
rado Party  won.  Baldomir  (1938-43)  was  elected  president.  Once 
again,  Badlists,  Independent  Nationalists,  and  Radical  Blancos 
abstained  from  voting. 

Baldomir  and  the  End  of  Dictatorship 

After  his  inauguration,  and  after  suppressing  a  coup  attempt, 
Baldomir  announced  his  intention  to  reform  the  1934  constitution 
but  then  procrastinated  on  carrying  out  the  project.  Several  months 
later,  the  opposition  led  one  of  the  most  important  political  demon- 
strations in  the  history  of  the  country,  demanding  a  new  constitu- 
tion and  a  return  to  democracy.  Under  pressure  from  organized 


31 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

labor  and  the  National  Party,  Baldomir  advocated  free  elections, 
freedom  of  the  press,  and  a  new  constitution. 

Baldomir' s  administration  could  not  avoid  the  consequences  of 
World  War  II  or  the  pressures  and  interests  of  the  Allied  forces. 
Although  he  declared  Uruguay's  neutrality  in  1939,  that  Decem- 
ber the  Battle  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  took  place.  The  badly  damaged 
German  battleship  GrafSpee,  cornered  by  a  British  naval  force  and 
required  by  the  Uruguayan  government  to  leave  its  refuge  in  the 
port  of  Montevideo,  was  blown  up  and  scuttled  by  its  own  crew 
just  outside  the  harbor.  After  this,  Uruguay  assumed  a  pro-Allied 
stance.  In  1940  it  began  an  investigation  of  Nazi  sympathizers  and 
finally,  in  1942,  broke  relations  with  the  Axis. 

The  Blancos  persistently  attempted  to  obstruct  legislation  in- 
troduced by  Baldomir  and  criticized  the  Colorados'  policy  of  cooper- 
ation with  the  United  States  in  hemispheric  defense.  Baldomir' s 
Blanco  ally,  Herrera,  fought  for  neutrality,  and  in  1940  Herrera 
opposed  the  installation  of  United  States  bases  in  Uruguay.  In  1941 
Baldomir  forced  his  three  Herrerist  ministers  to  resign;  they  had 
been  appointed  to  his  cabinet  in  accordance  with  provisions  of  the 
1934  constitution.  Baldomir  subsequently  appointed  a  board,  without 
the  participation  of  Herrerists,  to  study  a  constitutional  reform. 
Finally,  in  February  1942  Baldomir  dissolved  the  General  Assem- 
bly and  replaced  it  with  the  Council  of  State  (Consejo  de  Estado), 
composed  of  Batllists  and  other  Colorados.  This  quasi-coup  was  car- 
ried out  without  arrests,  deportations,  or  the  closing  of  newspapers. 
It  was  an  in-house  agreement  to  overcome  the  institutional  crisis 
initiated  on  March  31,  1933,  and  to  avoid  enforcement  of  the  exist- 
ing constitution.  Batllists  and  Communists  welcomed  the  new  situ- 
ation, but  the  Socialists  argued  that  Baldomir  had  been  one  of  the 
protagonists  of  the  1933  coup.  Independent  Nationalists  remained 
on  the  sidelines.  Herrerism,  freely  accused  of  being  pro-Nazi,  pro- 
Franco,  and  pro- Argentine,  was  the  big  loser. 

In  November  1942,  national  elections  were  held.  Although  an 
electoral  law  had  been  passed  in  1939  to  avoid  the  formation  of 
coalitions  that  would  endanger  the  two-party  system  (Blancos  and 
Colorados),  Independent  Nationalists  were  allowed  to  participate 
as  a  new  political  party,  separate  from  Herrerism.  Thus,  the  Na- 
tional Party  divided  into  two  splinter  parties  and  continued  as  such 
until  1958.  Socialists  and  Communists  were  also  split,  a  situation 
that  continued  until  1971,  when  the  Broad  Front  (Frente  Amplio) 
coalition  was  created.  Batllists  supported  the  Colorado  candidate, 
Juan  Jose  Amezaga  (1943-47),  who  won  the  election. 

At  the  same  time,  a  new  constitution  was  submitted  to  plebis- 
cite and  was  approved  by  77  percent  of  the  electorate.  As  amended 


32 


A  rural  highway  near  Punta  del  Este 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 

on  November  19,  1942,  the  constitution  retained  the  presidency, 
restored  the  General  Assembly,  implemented  strict  proportional 
representation  in  the  Senate,  and  abolished  the  mandatory  co- 
participation  imposed  by  the  1934  constitution  for  ministries  and 
boards  of  autonomous  entities. 

"There's  No  Place  Like  Uruguay/'  1943-58 

The  Administration  of  Amezaga,  1943-47 

After  Amezaga  ^institutionalized  and  restored  civil  liberties, 
Uruguay  entered  a  new  historical  era,  characterized  by  the  increas- 
ing importance  of  industrialization  and  significant  gains  for  virtu- 
ally all  sectors  of  society.  No  other  phrase  expresses  as  eloquently 
perceptions  about  this  period  by  the  average  citizen  as  the  slogan 
proclaimed  by  a  politician:  "Como  el  Uruguay  no  hay"  (There's 
no  place  like  Uruguay).  During  the  Amezaga  administration,  the 
state  reorganized  its  interventionist  and  welfare  role  and  strongly 
pushed  social  legislation.  In  1943  the  government  implemented  a 
system  of  wage  councils  (including  representatives  from  the  state, 
workers,  and  employers)  to  set  salaries,  and  it  established  a  fam- 
ily assistance  program.  In  1945  the  General  Assembly  passed 
legislation  requiring  paid  leave  for  all  work  activities,  as  well  as 
other  legislation  that  addressed  the  needs  of  rural  workers,  one  of 


33 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Uruguay's  poorest  sectors.  In  1943  the  rural  workers  were  incor- 
porated into  the  pension  system,  and  in  1946  the  Rural  Worker 
Statute  set  forth  their  rights  and  also  put  women's  civil  rights  on 
a  par  with  men's. 

Neo-Batllism,  1947-51 

From  the  beginning  of  the  1940s,  and  especially  after  creation 
of  the  wage  councils,  real  wages  increased,  which  meant  an  im- 
provement in  the  living  standards  of  the  working  class  and  dyna- 
mism in  the  internal  market.  The  period  of  increased  industrial 
development  lasted  from  1945  to  1955;  total  production  practically 
doubled  during  this  time.  Agriculture  also  experienced  a  boom. 
Social  legislation  was  improved,  the  pension  system  was  expanded, 
and  the  state  bureaucracy  grew.  Resorts  near  Montevideo  were 
developed  through  the  sale  of  lots  on  the  installment  plan,  and  Punta 
del  Este  became  an  international  tourist  attraction.  Gold  reserves 
in  BROU  reached  their  highest  level  ever.  In  1950,  when  Uruguay 
again  won  the  World  Cup  in  soccer,  it  was  already  known  as  the 
"Switzerland  of  South  America." 

Batllism  returned  to  power  with  the  victory  of  the  presidential 
ticket  of  Tomas  Berreta  (1947)  and  Luis  Batlle  Berres  (1947-51) 
in  the  1946  elections.  Berreta' s  administration  was  brief;  he  died 
six  months  after  taking  office  and  was  succeeded  by  his  vice  presi- 
dent, Batlle  Berres. 

Batlle  Berres,  a  nephew  of  Jose  Batlle  y  Ordonez,  represented 
the  most  popular  faction  of  Badlism,  later  to  be  known  as  Unity 
and  Reform  (Unidad  y  Reforma),  or  List  15  because  of  the  list 
number  under  which  it  would  participate  in  successive  elections. 
He  gradually  became  estranged  from  his  cousins — Lorenzo  and 
Cesar,  Badle  y  Ordonez's  sons — who  promoted  a  more  conserva- 
tive vision  from  their  newspaper,  El  Dia,  and  who  would  later  form 
a  new  Colorado  Party  faction,  List  14.  Batlle  Berres  founded  his 
own  newspaper  (Action)  in  1948,  bought  a  radio  station,  and  sur- 
rounded himself  with  young  politicians.  His  ideological-political 
agenda,  adapted  to  the  changes  in  his  country  and  the  world,  be- 
came known  as  neo-Batllism.  He  rejected  the  communist  and 
populist-authoritarian  experiences  of  other  Latin  American  coun- 
tries, especially  that  of  Juan  Domingo  Peron  in  Argentina.  Batlle 
Berres  formed  a  multiclass  movement  that  promoted  compromise 
and  conciliation.  He  believed  the  state's  role  was  to  safeguard  so- 
cial peace  and  to  correct,  through  adequate  measures,  the  "unfair 
differences"  created  by  the  socioeconomic  structure.  In  contrast 
to  Peronism,  neo-Batllism  respected  the  political  autonomy  of  the 
workers'  movement,  accepted  social  cooperation,  and  rejected 


34 


Historical  Setting 


the  kind  of  corporative  structure  that  characterized  Mexico's 
governing  party. 

Batlle  Berres  was  an  enthusiastic  supporter  of  economic  develop- 
ment based  on  import-substitution  industrialization  (see  Glossary) 
and  agricultural  expansion.  He  applied  interventionist  and  statist 
economic  measures  to  promote  such  development  and  did  not  abide 
by  the  IMF's  austerity  recommendations.  He  supported  agricul- 
ture and  industry  through  credits  and  subsidies,  as  well  as  control 
over  the  nation's  currency,  a  fact  that  brought  him  into  conflict 
with  ranchers.  BROU,  which  controlled  sales  of  foreign  currency, 
paid  less  for  foreign  currency  earned  from  livestock  raising  to  favor 
industrial  requirements  for  raw  materials  and  machinery.  This 
differential  exchange-rate  policy  stimulated  the  development  of  light 
industry,  more  than  90  percent  of  which  was  directed  toward  the 
internal  market.  Nevertheless,  the  state  guaranteed  profitable  prices 
for  agriculture  and  stimulated  imports  of  agricultural  machinery. 
New  crops  were  developed  to  supply  industry  with  raw  materials, 
and  surpluses  were  exported.  By  contrast,  livestock  raising  con- 
tinued to  stagnate. 

An  earlier  agreement  with  Britain  obliged  the  government  to 
acquire  some  British  enterprises  to  cancel  its  outstanding  debt  to 
Britain.  The  state's  economic  role  was  thus  increased  through  the 
creation  of  new  public  service  enterprises,  including  Montevideo's 
tramways,  railroads,  and  water  system. 

Another  potentially  significant  event  in  the  socioeconomic  realm 
was  the  creation  of  the  National  Land  Settlement  Institute  in  1948. 
It  was  designed  to  stimulate  land  subdivision  and  agricultural  and 
livestock  settlements  and  was  authorized  to  purchase  and  expropri- 
ate land.  But  action  was  limited  because  of  a  lack  of  funds,  and 
significant  agrarian  reform  never  took  place.  However,  in  order 
to  favor  lower-income  groups,  subsidies  were  set  for  various  basic 
food  items,  and  in  1947  the  National  Subsistence  Council  was 
created  to  control  the  price  of  basic  items. 

The  traditional  parties  maintained  their  differences,  which  were 
reflected  in  the  significant  variations  in  their  platforms.  The  Polit- 
ical Parties  Law,  which  allowed  party  factions  to  accumulate  votes, 
guaranteed  the  predominance  of  the  Colorado  Party.  Together, 
the  Colorados  and  Blancos  continued  to  capture  almost  90  percent 
of  the  votes.  But  because  of  the  splits  in  his  own  party,  Batlle  Berres 
was  forced  to  seek  political  support  from  other  factions.  Paradoxi- 
cally, he  sought  a  ' 'patriotic  coincidence"  with  Herrera  and  gave 
cabinet  posts  to  some  leading  figures  of  Terrism,  past  enemies  within 
his  own  party. 


35 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Conservative  sectors,  particularly  landowners,  opposed  or  dis- 
trusted the  growing  bureaucracy,  the  expansion  of  social  legisla- 
tion, and  the  policy  of  income  redistribution  that  favored  the 
industrial  sector  to  the  detriment  of  the  rural  sector.  In  1950  Benito 
Nardone — an  anticommunist  radio  personality  supported  by  Juan 
Domingo  R.  Bordaberry,  one  of  the  directors  of  the  Rural  Feder- 
ation (and  father  of  Juan  Maria  Bordaberry  Arocena;  president, 
1972-76) — created  the  Federal  League  for  Rural  Action  (Liga  Fed- 
eral de  Accion  Rural — LFAR).  The  Ruralist  faction  thus  created 
attempted  to  unite  the  disenchanted  rural  middle-class  constituen- 
cies, especially  wool  producers,  from  both  traditional  parties.  He 
proposed  a  free-market  economic  model  in  contrast  to  Luis  Batlle 
Berres's  statist  model. 

Unity  and  Reform  won  the  1950  elections.  Its  presidential  can- 
didate was  a  Batllist,  Andres  Martinez  Trueba  (1951-55),  who 
quickly  put  forward  a  new  constitutional  amendment,  this  time  to 
make  good  on  Batlle  y  Ordonez's  dream  of  a  purely  plural  execu- 
tive, the  colegiado.  He  was  supported  by  Herrera,  who  was  seeking 
to  enhance  both  his  personal  power  and  Blanco  political  power  and 
to  recover  the  ground  lost  in  the  1942  coup.  He  was  also  supported 
by  conservative  Colorado  factions  who  feared  Batlle  Berres's  be- 
coming president  again. 

The  new  constitution  was  approved  by  plebiscite  in  1951  and 
went  into  effect  in  1952.  It  reestablished  the  colegiado  as  the  Na- 
tional Council  of  Government  (Consejo  Nacional  de  Gobierno). 
The  council  had  nine  members,  six  from  the  dominant  faction  of 
the  majority  party  and  three  from  the  party  receiving  the  second 
highest  number  of  votes  (two  from  its  leading  faction  and  one  from 
its  second-ranking  faction).  The  presidency  was  to  rotate  each  year 
among  the  six  members  of  the  majority  party.  The  constitution 
mandated  coparticipation  in  directing  autonomous  entities  and 
ministries,  using  a  three-and-two  system  (three  members  appointed 
by  the  majority  party  on  the  council  and  two  by  the  minority  party). 
Uruguay  enjoyed  unprecedented  prosperity  at  this  time,  and  the 
establishment  of  a  purely  collegial,  Swiss-style  executive  reinforced 
the  country's  title  as  the  "Switzerland  of  South  America." 

Decline  of  the  Economy  and  the  Colorado  Party,  1951-58 

The  Martinez  administration  in  the  first  half  of  the  1950s, 
however,  was  one  of  economic  decline.  At  the  end  of  the  Korean 
War  (1950-53),  during  which  Uruguay  had  exported  wool  for  cold- 
weather  uniforms,  Uruguay  experienced  a  reduction  in  exports, 
a  drop  in  the  price  of  agricultural  and  livestock  products,  labor 
unrest,  and  unemployment.  Livestock  production,  which  had 


36 


Historical  Setting 


basically  stagnated  since  the  1920s,  was  not  capable  of  providing 
the  foreign  exchange  needed  to  further  implement  the  import- 
substitution  industrialization  model.  Starting  in  1955,  the  indus- 
trial sector  stagnated  and  inflation  rose.  At  the  same  time,  Uru- 
guay had  difficulties  with  the  United  States  regarding  wool  exports 
and  suffered  the  negative  effects  of  both  restrictive  United  States 
trade  policies  and  competition  from  the  foreign  sales  of  United  States 
agricultural  surpluses. 

In  1951  a  faction  opposing  the  more  radical  leadership  of  the 
General  Union  of  Workers  (Union  General  de  Trabaj adores — 
UGT;  established  in  1942)  founded  the  General  Confederation  of 
Labor.  Nevertheless,  strikes  and  stoppages  continued.  In  1952,  in 
the  face  of  labor  unrest,  the  National  Council  of  Government  in- 
voked the  emergency  provision  of  the  constitution  known  as  the 
medidas prontas  de  seguridad  (prompt  security  measures).  From  1956 
to  1972,  the  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary)  fell  12 
percent,  and  in  the  decade  from  1957  to  1967  real  wages  for  pub- 
lic employees  fell  40  percent.  In  1958  the  General  Assembly  ap- 
proved strike  insurance  and  maternity  leave.  In  addition,  worker 
and  student  mobilization  pressured  the  General  Assembly  into  ap- 
proving the  Organic  University  Law,  whereby  the  government 
recognized  the  autonomy  of  the  University  of  the  Republic  and 
the  right  of  professors,  alumni,  and  students  to  govern  it.  Neverthe- 
less, labor  unrest  increased. 

At  first,  dramatic  political  events  masked  the  economic  crisis. 
In  the  1958  elections,  the  Independent  Nationalists,  who  had  joined 
the  Democratic  Blanco  Union  (Union  Blanca  Democratica — UBD), 
agreed  to  include  their  votes  under  the  traditional  National  Party 
of  the  Herrerists.  Thus,  for  the  first  time  in  decades,  the  National 
Party  voted  as  one  party.  In  addition,  Herrera  joined  forces  with 
Nardone  and  his  LFAR,  transforming  it  from  a  union  into  a  po- 
litical movement.  Aided  by  the  LFAR  and  a  weakening  economy, 
the  National  Party  won,  and  the  Colorado  Party  lost  control  of  the 
executive  for  the  first  time  in  ninety-four  years. 

Economic  Crisis  and  Decline 

The  Blanco  Administrations,  1959-67 

From  March  1959  to  February  1967,  eight  National  Party  gov- 
ernments ruled  Uruguay.  The  death  of  Herrera  (1959)  aggravated 
divisions  in  the  National  Party  and  demonstrated  the  fragility  of 
the  electoral  accords  that  had  led  to  its  victory.  The  economic  cri- 
sis and  social  unrest  that  had  beset  Uruguay  from  the  mid-1950s 
continued,  and  the  1960s  opened  with  gloom  and  sadness  for  the 


37 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

country.  At  the  time  of  the  1962  elections,  inflation  was  running 
at  a  historically  high  35  percent.  The  Colorado  Party  was  defeated 
once  again,  although  by  a  much  smaller  margin  of  votes  (24,000 
as  compared  with  120,000  in  1958).  The  National  Party  split.  The 
UBD  joined  a  splinter  faction  of  Herrerism,  the  Orthodox  faction, 
led  by  Eduardo  Victor  Haedo.  Another  faction  of  Herrerism,  led 
by  Martin  R.  Echegoyen  (1959-60),  kept  its  alliance  with  Nardone's 
Ruralists.  At  the  same  time,  divisions  between  the  List  14  faction 
and  Unity  and  Reform  were  intensified  in  the  Colorado  Party. 

Important  changes  also  took  place  in  the  minor  parties.  Catho- 
lics formed  the  Christian  Democratic  Party  (Partido  Democrata 
Cristiano — PDC).  Communists  formed  a  coalition  with  other  minor 
parties,  the  Leftist  Liberty  Front  (Frente  Izquierda  de  Libertad — 
Fidel).  The  PSU  joined  with  intellectuals  and  dissidents  from  tradi- 
tional parties  and  formed  the  Popular  Union  (Union  Popular). 

The  thin  majority  of  the  governing  party,  as  well  as  its  internal 
divisions,  hindered  the  administration  of  the  National  Council  of 
Government  during  the  1963-67  period.  In  1964  the  political  scene 
was  further  affected  by  the  death  of  two  important  leaders:  Batlle 
Berres  and  Nardone.  That  same  year,  the  workers'  movement 
formed  a  single  centralized  union,  the  National  Convention  of 
Workers  (Convention  Nacional  de  Trabaj adores — CNT).  In  addi- 
tion, a  new  political  protagonist  appeared.  In  1962  Raul  Antonaccio 
Sendic,  head  of  the  sugarcane  workers  from  the  north  of  the  country, 
formed,  together  with  other  leftist  leaders,  the  National  Liberation 
Movement-Tupamaros  (Movimiento  de  Liberation  Nacional- 
Tupamaros — MLN-T),  a  clandestine  urban  guerrilla  movement. 

Economically,  the  1958  Blanco  victory  brought  ranching  and 
agricultural  forces  to  power.  This  led  to  the  implementation  of 
liberal  (free-market)  economic  policies  aimed  at  eliminating  the 
protectionist-interventionist  model  that  had  fostered  industrial  de- 
velopment. In  1960  Uruguay  agreed  to  sign  its  first  letter  of  intent 
with  the  IMF.  The  Blanco  government  devalued  the  currency  and 
established  a  single,  free  monetary7  exchange  market  (while  main- 
taining the  interventionist  role  of  BROU),  as  well  as  the  free  im- 
port and  export  of  goods  and  services.  The  reorientation  of  economic 
policy  tended  to  favor  the  agro-exporting  sector.  However,  the 
model  could  not  be  applied  fully,  nor  in  an  orthodox  manner.  In- 
flation increased  to  more  than  50  percent  per  year  between  1963 
and  1967,  and  in  1965  an  overstretched  financial  system  and  mas- 
sive speculation  produced  a  banking  crisis.  Labor  and  social  con- 
flict increased  as  well,  and  a  state  of  siege  was  imposed  in  1965. 

To  try  to  solve  the  problem  of  economic  stagnation,  the  govern- 
ment complied  with  one  of  the  principal  recommendations  of  the 


38 


Historical  Setting 


Alliance  for  Progress  (a  United  States  program  to  help  develop  and 
modernize  Latin  American  states)  by  preparing  a  ten-year  develop- 
ment plan.  However,  virtually  none  of  the  plan's  recommenda- 
tions were  ever  put  into  practice. 

During  the  Blanco  era,  sectors  from  both  traditional  parties  had 
begun  blaming  the  country's  difficulties  on  the  collegial  constitu- 
tional arrangement  of  executive  power.  In  the  1966  elections,  three 
constitutional  amendments  were  submitted.  The  approved  changes, 
supported  by  Blancos  and  Colorados,  were  incorporated  in  the  1967 
constitution,  which  put  an  end  to  the  collegial  executive,  thereby 
returning  the  country  to  a  presidential  regime;  granted  increased 
powers  to  the  executive;  and  extended  the  presidential  term  to  five 
years.  They  also  eliminated  the  three-and-two  (coparticipation)  sys- 
tem for  appointing  heads  of  autonomous  entities  and  ministries  and 
created  new  state  agencies  to  modernize  government:  the  Office 
of  Planning  and  Budget,  the  Social  Welfare  Bank,  and  the  Cen- 
tral Bank  of  Uruguay.  High  school  education  became  compulsory. 

Pachequism,  1967-72 

Given  the  growing  economic  and  social  crisis,  it  was  not  sur- 
prising that  the  Colorado  Party  won  the  November  1966  elections. 
In  March  1967,  General  Oscar  Gestido  (1967),  a  retired  army 
general  who  had  earned  a  reputation  as  an  able  and  honest  ad- 
ministrator when  he  ran  the  State  Railways  Administration,  be- 
came president.  He  was  supported  by  the  Colorado  and  Batllist 
Union  (Union  Colorada  y  Batllista — UCB),  comprising  List  14  and 
other  conservative  Colorados. 

Between  June  and  November  of  1967,  the  government,  with  the 
influence  of  some  Batllists,  attempted  to  reverse  economic  and  social 
policies  implemented  since  1959  and  to  return  to  the  old  develop- 
mentalist  model.  But  in  November,  Cesar  Charlone,  responsible 
for  economic  policies  under  Terra,  became  head  of  the  Ministry 
of  Economy  and  Finance.  He  agreed  to  the  IMF's  suggestions, 
again  establishing  a  unified  exchange  market  and  drastically  devalu- 
ing the  currency.  Inflation  exceeded  100  percent  in  1967,  the  highest 
in  the  country's  history. 

In  December  President  Gestido  died  and  was  succeeded  by  his 
vice  president,  Jorge  Pacheco  Areco  (1967-72).  A  litde-known  poli- 
tician and  former  director  of  the  newspaper  El  Dia,  Pacheco  would 
leave  an  indelible  mark  on  Uruguay.  Within  one  week  of  taking 
office,  Pacheco  issued  a  decree  banning  the  PSU  and  other  leftist 
groups  and  their  press,  which  he  accused  of  subverting  the  constitu- 
tional order  and  advocating  armed  struggle.  To  implement  the  new 
monetarist  policy  adopted  in  1968,  Pacheco  appointed  Alejandro 


39 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Vegh  Villegas  as  director  of  the  Office  of  Planning  and  Budget. 
In  a  sharp  policy  change,  Pacheco  decreed  a  wage  and  price  freeze 
in  June  1968  to  try  to  control  inflation.  He  also  created  the  Produc- 
tivity, Prices,  and  Income  Commission  (Comision  de  Produc- 
tividad,  Precios,  e  Ingresos — Coprin)  to  control  the  price  of  basic 
food  items.  In  1968  real  wages  were  the  lowest  in  the  decade,  and 
inflation  reached  a  maximum  annual  rate  of  183  percent  that  June. 

The  newly  created  umbrella  labor  organization,  the  CNT,  re- 
sisted these  economic  policies,  and  student  and  other  social  con- 
flict intensified.  The  government  responded  by  repressing  strikes, 
work  stoppages,  and  student  demonstrations.  The  death  of  a  stu- 
dent, Liber  Arce,  during  a  protest  paralyzed  Montevideo,  and  re- 
lations between  the  University  of  the  Republic  and  the  government 
further  deteriorated.  "Prompt  security  measures,"  a  limited  form 
of  a  state  of  siege,  which  had  been  included  in  the  constitution  to 
deal  with  extraordinary  disturbances  of  domestic  order  and  applied 
in  1952  and  1965,  were  enforced  during  almost  all  of  Pacheco' s 
time  in  office.  He  justified  his  actions,  which  included  drafting  strik- 
ing bank  and  government  employees  to  active  military  service,  on 
the  basis  of  the  growing  urban  guerrilla  threat  from  the  Tupamaros. 

During  this  period,  the  Tupamaros  had  grown  in  strength,  and 
their  actions — robberies,  denunciations,  kidnappings,  and,  even- 
tually, killings — shook  the  country  and  became  known  worldwide. 
The  General  Assembly  acquiesced  twice  in  the  suspension  of  all 
civil  liberties,  once  for  twenty  days  following  the  assassination  in 
August  1970  of  Dan  A.  Mitrione,  a  United  States  security  offi- 
cial, and  then  for  forty  days  following  the  kidnapping  of  British 
ambassador  Geoffrey  Jackson  in  January  1971 — both  by  the 
Tupamaros.  On  September  9,  1971,  after  the  escape  from  prison 
of  more  than  100  Tupamaros,  Pacheco  put  the  army  in  charge  of 
all  counter  guerrilla  activity. 

The  November  1971  national  elections  were  held  in  a  relatively 
quiet  atmosphere  because  of  a  truce  declared  by  the  Tupamaros. 
Uruguayan  society  had  become  polarized.  Political  sectors  support- 
ing Pacheco  promoted  his  reelection  to  a  new  presidential  term, 
as  well  as  the  corresponding  constitutional  amendment  to  legitimize 
it.  The  left  was  able  to  unite  and  draw  supporters  from  traditional 
parties,  such  as  the  Colorado  Party's  List  99.  The  new  coalition 
was  named  the  Broad  Front  (Frente  Amplio).  In  the  National  Party, 
a  faction  of  Herrerists  chose  General  Mario  Aguerrondo,  consid- 
ered a  hard-liner,  as  its  presidential  candidate.  Liberal  Blancos  sup- 
ported the  reformist  program  of  a  new  movement,  For  the 
Fatherland  (Por  la  Patria — PLP),  led  by  Senator  Wilson  Ferreira 
Aldunate. 


40 


Historical  Setting 


The  constitutional  amendment  did  not  succeed,  but  Pacheco's 
handpicked  successor,  Juan  Maria  Bordaberry  Arocena  of  the 
Colorado  Party,  won  the  controversial  elections  by  some  10,000 
votes,  after  a  mysterious  halt  in  the  vote  count.  It  was  noteworthy, 
however,  that  Ferreira  obtained  a  large  number  of  votes  (he  was 
actually  the  candidate  receiving  the  most  votes — 26  percent  of  the 
total  to  Bordaberry' s  24  percent),  and  the  left  increased  its  follow- 
ing, receiving  about  18  percent  of  the  votes.  Bipartisan  politics  had 
come  to  an  end,  replaced  by  a  multiparty  system  bitterly  divided 
by  political,  social,  economic,  and  ideological  differences.  In  eco- 
nomic terms,  the  stabilization  measures  taken  between  1969  and 
1971  by  the  Pacheco  administration  to  increase  wages  and  reduce 
inflation  had  been  moderately  successful.  But  by  1972,  the  situa- 
tion was  out  of  control  again.  Another  free-market,  monetarist  ex- 
periment would  have  to  await  the  imposition  of  an  authoritarian 
regime. 

The  Emergence  of  Militarism,  1972-73 

In  March  1972,  Bordaberry  was  sworn  in  as  president  (1972-76). 
He  ran  as  a  Colorado,  but  he  had  been  active  in  Nardone's  Ruralist 
movement  and  had  been  elected  to  the  Senate  as  a  representative 
of  the  National  Party.  Bordaberry' s  narrow  victory  forced  him  to 
seek  the  support  of  other  political  parties.  He  found  it  in  Mario 
Aguerrondo's  Herrerist  faction  of  the  National  Party  and  in  the 
Colorado  Party's  Unity  and  Reform,  led  by  Jorge  Badle  Ibafiez, 
a  son  of  Luis  Batlle  Berres,  who  had  founded  the  faction. 

Bordaberry  appointed  Julio  Maria  Sanguinetti  Cairolo,  who 
headed  a  faction  of  Unity  and  Reform,  as  minister  of  education 
and  culture.  Sanguinetti  promoted  education  reform  that  brought 
together  primary,  secondary,  and  vocational  education  under  the 
National  Council  for  Education  (Consejo  Nacional  de  Educacion — 
Conae)  and  established  secret  and  mandatory  voting  for  the  elec- 
tion of  university  authorities.  Unity  and  Reform  also  took  charge 
of  economic  policy  by  implementing  a  five-year  development  plan 
inspired  by  neoliberal  (free-market)  and  monetarist  principles, 
which  would  slowly  open  the  economy  to  greater  influence  from 
financial  and  commercial  groups,  as  well  as  to  foreign  investment. 

The  Bordaberry  administration,  however,  continued  its  predeces- 
sor's policies,  giving  greater  budgetary  priority  to  the  military  than 
to  education  and  other  social  areas.  Bordaberry  also  proposed  legis- 
lation to  eliminate  university  autonomy  and  enhance  the  powers 
of  the  army  and  police. 

When  the  Tupamaros  finally  renewed  their  armed  activities  fol- 
lowing their  six-month  electoral  truce  from  October  1971  to  April 


41 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


1972,  they  faced  a  firmly  entrenched  administration  backed  by  an 
increasingly  well-equipped  and  adequately  prepared  military,  which 
had  a  blank  check  to  defeat  them.  In  April  1972,  after  a  bloody 
shoot-out  with  the  Tupamaros,  Bordaberry  declared  a  state  of 
'  'internal  war. ' '  All  civil  liberties  were  suspended,  initially  for  thirty 
days  but  later  extended  by  the  General  Assembly  until  1973.  On 
July  10,  1972,  the  government  enacted  the  draconian  State  Secu- 
rity Law.  By  the  end  of  the  year,  the  army  had  decisively  defeated 
the  Tupamaros,  whose  surviving  members  either  were  imprisoned 
or  fled  into  exile.  Despite  their  victory  over  the  Tupamaros,  the 
military  had  grown  impatient  with  civilian  rule.  It  was  now  time 
for  the  armed  forces'  final  assault  on  the  Uruguayan  polity. 

The  Military  Government,  1973-85 
The  New  Situation,  1973-80 

In  February  1973,  a  deep  conflict  emerged  among  the  president, 
the  General  Assembly,  and  the  armed  forces.  The  army  and  air 
force  rebelled  against  Bordaberry' s  selection  of  a  civilian  as  minister 
of  national  defense.  On  February  9  and  10,  the  army  issued  two 
communiques  proposing  a  series  of  political,  social,  and  economic 
measures.  Initially,  the  navy  maintained  its  loyalty  to  the  presi- 
dent but  subsequently  joined  the  other  military  services.  Bordaberry 
made  an  agreement  with  the  military,  known  as  the  Boisso  Lanza 
Pact,  that  guaranteed  their  advisory  role  and  their  participation 
in  political  decision  making.  In  effect,  the  pact  constituted  a  quasi- 
coup.  The  National  Security  Council  (Consejo  de  Seguridad 
Nacional — Cosena)  was  created  as  an  advisory  body  to  the  execu- 
tive. Its  members  included  the  commanders  of  the  army,  navy, 
and  air  force,  plus  an  additional  senior  military  officer,  and  the 
ministers  of  national  defense,  interior,  and  foreign  affairs. 

The  military  then  pushed  for  the  final  approval  and  implemen- 
tation of  the  State  Security  Law.  However,  differences  with  the 
General  Assembly,  which  was  investigating  charges  of  torture  com- 
mitted by  the  military  and  felt  that  the  military  had  exceeded  its 
powers,  continued  until  June  27,  1973.  On  that  date,  with  the  back- 
ing of  the  armed  forces,  Bordaberry  dissolved  the  General  Assem- 
bly and  replaced  it  with  the  Council  of  State,  and  he  empowered 
the  armed  forces  and  police  to  take  whatever  measures  were  neces- 
sary to  ensure  normal  public  services.  In  essence,  a  de  facto  dic- 
tatorship had  been  announced.  The  new  situation  was  supported 
by  some  Colorados  (the  Pachequist  faction)  and  some  Blancos 
(Aguerrondo's  Herrerists).  But  the  CNT  called  for  the  occupation 
of  factories  and  a  general  strike  that  lasted  almost  two  weeks.  When 


42 


Historical  Setting 


the  civil-military  dictatorship  was  consolidated,  it  banned  the  CNT, 
the  PCU,  and  other  existing  and  alleged  Marxist-Leninist  organi- 
zations, and  it  intervened  in  the  university  to  quell  dissident  ac- 
tivities by  the  students. 

The  military's  "Doctrine  of  National  Security"  was  a  pseudo- 
scientific  analysis  of  society  grounded  in  geopolitics.  It  posited  that 
sovereignty  no  longer  resided  in  the  people  but  derived  instead  from 
the  requirements  of  state  survival.  This  was  basically  the  same  ideol- 
ogy made  famous  by  the  Brazilian  generals  after  their  takeover  in 
1964.  The  core  of  the  doctrine  was  articulated  by  Brazil's  General 
Artur  Golbery  do  Couto  e  Silva  in  his  book  Geopolitica  do  Brasil. 
Essentially,  the  book  described  a  world  divided  into  two  opposing 
blocs — the  capitalist  and  Christian  West  and  the  communist  and 
"atheistic"  East — each  with  its  own  values  that  were  considered 
irreconcilable.  The  Brazilian  and  Uruguayan  generals  saw  them- 
selves as  part  of  the  Western  bloc  and  were  therefore  engaged  in 
an  unrelenting  global  struggle  with  the  opposition.  This  struggle 
called  for  a  war  in  which  there  was  no  room  for  hesitation  or  un- 
certainty against  a  cunning  and  ruthless  enemy.  Thus,  it  was  neces- 
sary to  sacrifice  some  secular  freedoms  in  order  to  protect  and 
preserve  the  state. 

"Preventive"  repression  by  the  Uruguayan  military  regime  was 
intense.  To  the  dead  and  disappeared  were  added  thousands  of  per- 
sons who  went  to  jail  because  they  were  accused  of  politically  moti- 
vated crimes.  Many  were  tortured.  Others  were  fired  from  their 
government  jobs  for  political  reasons.  The  regime  restricted  free- 
dom of  the  press  and  association,  as  well  as  party  political  activ- 
ity. Amnesty  International  calculated  that  in  1976  Uruguay  had 
more  political  prisoners  per  capita  than  any  other  nation  on  earth. 
During  these  years,  approximately  10  percent  of  Uruguay's  popu- 
lation emigrated  for  political  or  economic  reasons. 

In  June  1976,  Bordaberry  was  forced  to  resign  after  submitting 
a  proposal  to  the  military  calling  for  the  elimination  of  political 
parties  and  the  creation  of  a  permanent  dictatorship  with  himself 
as  president.  National  elections  were  to  be  held  that  year,  although 
politicians  could  hardly  be  sanguine  after  the  assassinations  in 
Argentina  of  Uruguayan  political  leaders  Hector  Gutierrez  Ruiz 
(National  Party)  and  Zelmar  Michelini  (Broad  Front).  Bordaberry 
was  replaced  by  Alberto  Demichelli  Lizaso,  president  of  the  Council 
of  State,  who,  through  Institutional  Act  No.  1,  decreed  the  sus- 
pension of  elections.  Three  months  later,  Demichelli  was  succeeded 
by  Aparicio  Mendez  (1976-81),  who  essentially  decreed  the  polit- 
ical prohibition  of  all  individuals  who  had  participated  in  the  1966 
and  1971  elections.  Political  life  thus  came  to  a  halt. 


43 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


In  1977  the  military  government  made  public  its  political  plans. 
Over  the  next  few  years,  the  National  Party  and  the  Colorado  Party 
would  be  purged,  a  new  constitution  would  be  submitted  to  a 
plebiscite,  and  national  elections  would  be  held  with  a  single  can- 
didate agreed  on  by  both  parties.  A  charter  that  gave  the  military 
virtual  veto  power  over  all  government  policy  was  drawn  up.  In 
1980  the  armed  forces  decided  to  legitimize  themselves  by  submit- 
ting this  constitution  to  a  plebiscite. 

Opposing  the  constitutional  project  were  Batlle  Ibanez,  Ferreira, 
Carlos  Julio  Pereyra,  a  Herrerist  faction  led  by  Luis  Alberto  Lacalle 
de  Herrera,  Pachequist  dissidents,  and  the  Broad  Front,  who  con- 
sidered it  authoritarian  and  in  conflict  with  Uruguay's  democratic 
tradition.  When  Uruguay's  citizens  went  to  the  polls,  they  dealt 
the  military  regime  a  tremendous  blow  and  rejected  the  proposed 
new  constitution  by  57  to  43  percent. 

The  Military's  Economic  Record 

When  the  military  took  power  in  1973,  they  did  so  in  the  face 
of  a  decade  and  a  half  of  economic  stagnation,  high  inflation,  and 
increased  social  unrest.  Massive  repression  brought  the  social  un- 
rest under  control  and  eliminated  the  urban  guerrilla  threat.  Eco- 
nomic policy  and  performance  soon  became  the  regime's  ultimate 
claim  to  legitimacy  and  justification  for  its  harsh  rule.  The  mili- 
tary and  their  civilian  technocrats  hoped  to  reverse  Uruguay's 
economic  stagnation,  which  had  led  to  an  absence  of  capital  ac- 
cumulation and  investment,  as  well  as  to  capital  flight.  The  disso- 
lution of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  banning  of  union 
organizations  eliminated  any  possibilities  for  action  by  the  oppo- 
sition and  thus  made  possible  a  new  economic  model.  The  long- 
term  model  sought  by  the  military  involved  a  profound  change  in 
the  traditional  roles  of  the  public  and  private  sectors  and  the 
response  of  the  public  sector  to  the  influence  of  the  external  market. 

The  military's  economic  program  sought  to  transform  Uruguay 
into  an  international  financial  center  by  lifting  restrictions  on  the 
exchange  rate;  ensuring  the  free  convertibility  of  the  peso  and  for- 
eign remittances,  thus  further  "dollarizing"  the  economy;  facilitat- 
ing the  opening  of  branches  of  foreign  banks;  and  enacting  a  law 
to  promote  foreign  investment.  More  attention  was  paid  to  the  in- 
ternational market.  The  reduction  of  import  duties,  promotion  of 
nontraditional  exports,  integration  of  trade  with  Argentina  and 
Brazil,  and  liberalization  of  the  agricultural  and  livestock  markets 
were  key  goals.  Although  proposals  were  made  to  reduce  state  inter- 
ventionism,  the  state  participated  actively  in  the  preparation  of  the 
new  program. 


44 


Historical  Setting 


The  principal  architect  of  the  program  was  Harvard- trained 
Alejandro  Vegh  Villegas,  who  had  served  as  minister  of  economy 
and  finance  from  1974  to  1976.  Vegh  hoped  to  dismantle  the  pro- 
tectionist structure  of  the  economy;  free  the  banking  and  financial 
communities  from  the  restraints  under  which  they  operated;  cut 
the  budget,  especially  social  spending;  reduce  state  employment; 
and  sell  off  most  of  the  state  enterprises.  However,  some  of  the 
nationalist  and  populist  military  leaders  opposed  his  plan  for  mass 
reductions  in  government  employment  and  divestiture  of  state 
enterprises  such  as  ANCAP.  Vegh  succeeded  somewhat  in  his  bud- 
getary and  monetary  objectives  and  managed  to  reduce  some  tariffs. 
Between  1975  and  1980,  his  strict  monetary  policy  reduced  infla- 
tion from  100  percent  in  1972  to  40  to  67  percent  in  1980,  and 
by  1982  it  was  only  20  percent.  He  managed  this  by  strict  control 
of  the  social  service  side  of  the  budget  and  by  a  policy  of  depressed 
real  wages,  which  fell  by  50  percent  during  the  1970s. 

Between  1974  and  1980,  the  gross  domestic  product  (GDP — 
see  Glossary)  grew,  although  unevenly.  Beginning  in  1980,  how- 
ever, the  situation  changed  as  the  military's  economic  program 
began  to  unravel.  High  interest  rates  and  recession  in  the  United 
States  did  not  help  matters.  Between  1981  and  1983,  GDP  fell  some 
20  percent,  and  unemployment  rose  to  17  percent.  The  foreign 
debt  burden,  exacerbated  by  the  quadrupling  of  oil  prices  in  1974, 
grew  exponentially  and  stood  at  about  US$3  billion  by  1984. 

Industry  and  agriculture,  whose  accumulation  of  debt  in  dol- 
lars had  been  encouraged  by  official  policies,  were  adversely  af- 
fected by  the  government's  elimination  in  November  1982  of  its 
"crawling  peg"  system  (a  minidevaluation  monetary  policy)  in 
effect  since  1978.  The  progressively  overvalued  currency  had  limited 
the  ability  of  domestic  producers  to  raise  prices  to  compete  with 
cheaper  imports.  The  resulting  collapse  of  the  Uruguayan  new  peso 
(for  value  of  the  Uruguayan  new  peso — see  Glossary)  bankrupted 
thousands  of  individuals  and  businesses.  Industry  was  in  better 
shape,  although  it  had  unused  capacity  and  no  substantial  diver- 
sification had  taken  place.  The  financial  sector,  which  was  largely 
foreign  owned,  was  consolidated  and  expanded  at  the  same  time. 
As  the  situation  deteriorated,  the  state,  in  order  to  save  the  bank- 
ing system,  purchased  noncollectible  debt  portfolios  of  ranchers, 
industrialists,  and  importers,  which  were  held  by  private  banks. 
This  adversely  affected  the  fiscal  deficit  and  increased  the  foreign 
debt,  which  grew  sevenfold  between  1973  and  1984  (see  Restruc- 
turing under  the  Military  Regime,  1973-85,  ch.  3). 

The  failure  of  the  regime's  economic  model,  combined  with  its 
stifling  of  political  opposition,  prompted  thousands  of  Uruguay's 


45 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


best  professionals  to  go  into  exile.  By  late  1983,  Vegh  returned  from 
an  ambassadorship  in  the  United  States  to  once  again  become 
minister  of  economy  and  finance.  As  the  most  important  techno- 
crat to  serve  the  military  regime,  he  had  returned  to  help  smooth 
out  the  expected  transition  to  civilian  rule.  He  failed,  however,  to 
turn  over  a  revived  economy  to  a  democratic  government.  The 
lack  of  success  of  the  military's  economic  policies  and  their  failure 
to  achieve  legitimacy  or  consensus  led  to  a  watering  down  of  their 
own  plan  to  reinstitute  a  civilian  government  under  military 
tutelage. 

The  Opposition  and  the  Reemergence  of  Parties,  1980-84 

After  the  electoral  defeat  of  the  military's  constitution,  retired 
Lieutenant  General  Gregorio  Alvarez  Armelino  (1981-85),  one  of 
the  leaders  of  the  coup,  became  president,  and  political  dialogue 
was  slowly  restored.  The  1982  Political  Parties  Law  was  enacted 
to  regulate  the  election  of  political  leaders,  the  functioning  of  po- 
litical conventions,  and  the  preparation  of  political  platforms.  Its 
aim  was  the  controlled  regeneration  and  democratization  of  the 
political  system,  but  it  excluded  the  left  to  avoid  a  return  to  the 
situation  prior  to  1973.  In  1982  the  officials  of  the  National  Party, 
the  Colorado  Party,  and  the  Civic  Union  (Union  Civica — UC; 
created  in  1971),  a  small  conservative  Catholic  party,  were  elected. 
Once  again,  election  results  were  a  blow  to  the  military.  Sectors 
opposing  the  dictatorship  won  overwhelmingly  in  both  traditional 
parties.  A  divided  left,  although  officially  banned,  also  participated: 
some  cast  blank  ballots,  while  others  believed  it  would  be  more 
useful  to  back  the  democratic  sectors  of  traditional  parties. 

The  dialogue  between  politicians  and  the  military  gathered 
momentum  but  was  marked  by  advances  and  setbacks  and  accom- 
panied by  increasing  civil  resistance.  Uruguay  was  now  experienc- 
ing its  worst  economic  crisis  since  the  Great  Depression.  In  1983 
the  Interunion  Workers'  Assembly  (or  Plenum)  (Plenario  Inter- 
sindical  de  Trabaj adores — PIT)  reclaimed  the  banner  of  the  CNT 
and  was  authorized  to  hold  a  public  demonstration  on  May  1 ;  it 
later  assumed  the  name  PIT-CNT  to  show  its  link  with  the  earlier 
organization.  Students — united  under  the  Students'  Social  and  Cul- 
tural Association  for  Public  Education  (Asociacion  Social  y  Cul- 
tural de  Estudiantes  de  la  Ensenanza  Publica — ASCEEP),  heir  to 
the  banned  student  organizations — were  allowed  to  march  through 
the  streets  of  Montevideo.  In  November  all  opposition  parties  in- 
cluding the  left  staged  a  massive  political  rally,  demanding  elec- 
tions with  full  restoration  of  democratic  norms  and  without  political 
proscriptions. 


46 


Historical  Setting 


The  Transition  to  Democracy,  1984-85 

In  March  1984,  the  PIT-CNT  organized  a  civil  strike  and  freed 
General  Liber  Seregni  Mosquera,  leader  of  the  Broad  Front,  whom 
the  military  had  imprisoned  since  January  11,  1976.  By  mid- 1984 
yet  another  civil  strike  took  place,  this  time  organized  by  political 
parties  and  social  groups.  Blanco  Senator  Ferreira  returned  from 
exile.  His  subsequent  imprisonment  essentially  deprived  the  Na- 
tional Party  of  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  the  meetings  be- 
tween politicians  and  the  military  that  ended  with  the  Naval  Club 
Pact.  Signed  by  the  armed  forces  and  representatives  from  the 
Colorado  Party,  UC,  and  Broad  Front,  this  pact  called  for  national 
elections  to  be  held  that  same  year  on  the  traditional  last  Sunday 
in  November. 

The  discussions  at  the  Naval  Club  saw  the  military  give  up  its 
long-sought  goal  of  a  Cosena  dominated  by  the  military  and  with 
virtual  veto  power  over  all  civilian  government  decisions.  The  mili- 
tary now  settled  for  an  advisory  board  that  would  be  controlled 
by  the  president  and  the  cabinet.  Some  transitional  features  were 
agreed  to  by  the  civilian  leadership,  mostly  relating  to  the  ability 
of  the  armed  forces  to  maintain  its  seniority  system  in  the  naming 
of  the  commanders  of  the  various  military  services.  The  military 
also  agreed  to  review  the  cases  of  all  political  prisoners  who  had 
served  at  least  half  of  their  sentences.  Moreover,  the  military  ac- 
quiesced to  the  relegalization  of  the  left,  although  the  PCU  remained 
officially  banned  (until  March  1985).  The  Communists  were 
nonetheless  able  to  run  stand-in  candidates  under  their  own  list 
within  the  leftist  coalition.  Nothing  was  said  about  the  question 
of  human  rights  violations  by  the  dictatorship. 

The  election  results  were  no  great  surprise.  With  Ferreira  pro- 
hibited from  heading  the  Blanco  ticket  and  a  similar  fate  for  Seregni 
of  the  Broad  Front,  and  with  effective  use  of  young  newcomers 
and  a  savvy  media  campaign,  the  Colorado  Party  won.  The  Colo- 
rados  received  41  percent  of  the  vote;  the  Blancos,  34  percent;  and 
the  Broad  Front,  21  percent.  The  UC  received  2.5  percent  of  the 
vote.  Within  the  Broad  Front's  leftist  coalition,  social  democratic 
Senator  Hugo  Batalla,  who  headed  List  99,  a  faction  started  by 
Zelmar  Michelini  in  1971,  was  the  big  winner,  garnering  over  40 
percent  of  the  alliance's  vote.  For  the  victorious  Colorados,  former 
President  Pacheco  brought  the  party  25  percent  of  its  vote. 
However,  the  Colorado  presidential  ticket  receiving  the  most  votes 
(in  a  system  that  allowed  multiple  candidacies  for  president  in  each 
party)  was  headed  by  Sanguinetti.  After  being  sworn  in  as  president 
on  March  1,  1985,  Sanguinetti  led  the  transition  to  democracy. 


47 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

He  did  so  with  dignity  and  fairness,  although  the  legacy  of  human 
rights  violations  under  the  dictatorship  proved  a  troublesome 
problem  (see  Democratic  Consolidation,  1985-90,  ch.  4). 

*    *  * 

Eduardo  Acevedo's  voluminous  work  Andes  historicos  del  Uruguay, 
which  starts  in  the  sixteenth  century  and  ends  in  1930,  provides 
a  solid  bibliographical  background  for  both  political  and  socio- 
economic changes.  A  more  modern  version,  restricted  to  the  1851- 
1914  period,  may  be  found  in  Jose  Pedro  Barran  and  Benjamin 
Nahum's  Historia  rural  del  Uruguay  moderno.  This  seven- volume  work 
contains  an  analysis  of  Uruguay's  main  sources  of  wealth,  as  well 
as  a  review  of  political  events  and  social  change. 

Historiographical  production  on  Uruguay  slowed  down  begin- 
ning in  1930,  a  fact  demonstrated  by  a  decrease  in  contemporary 
historical  research.  There  are,  however,  short  works  covering  the 
period  from  1930  to  the  present:  Raul  Jacob's  El  Uruguay  de  Terra, 
1931-1938;  Ana  Frega,  Monica  Maronna,  and  Yvette  Trochon's 
Baldomir y  la  restauracion  democrdtica,  1938-1946;  German  D'Elia's 
El  Uruguay  neo-Batllista,  1946-1958;  Rosa  Alonso  Eloy  and  Carlos 
Demassi's  Uruguay,  1958-1968;  Oscar  Bruschera's  Las  decadas 
infames,  1967-1985;  and  Gerardo  Caetano  and  Jose  Pedro  Rilla's 
Breve  historia  de  la  dictadura,  1973-1985.  An  excellent  economic  his- 
tory of  Uruguay  is  M.H.J.  Finch's  A  Political  Economy  of  Uruguay 
since  1870.  Useful  English-language  sources  on  contemporary  Uru- 
guay include  Martin  Weinstein's  Uruguay:  The  Politics  of  Failure  and 
Uruguay:  Democracy  at  the  Crossroads.  Although  somewhat  dated, 
Marvin  Alisky's  Uruguay:  A  Contemporary  Survey  and  Russell  H.  Fitz- 
gibbon's  Uruguay:  Portrait  of  a  Democracy  also  contain  useful  back- 
ground information.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


48 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Street  of  Sighs,  a  seventeenth-century  historical  site  in  Colonia  del  Sacramento 


URUGUAY  WAS  ONCE  KNOWN  as  the  "Switzerland  of  South 
America' '  as  a  result  of  its  relative  governmental  stability,  advanced 
level  of  economic  development,  and  social  peace.  Indeed,  in  the 
creation  of  a  welfare  state,  it  was  far  ahead  of  Switzerland  during 
the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century.  Starting  in  the  1950s, 
however,  Uruguay's  economy  began  to  stagnate,  and  the  once- 
vaunted  welfare  state  became  increasingly  poor.  Commentators 
talked  of  the  "Latin  Americanization"  of  Uruguay  as  it  descended 
from  the  ranks  of  the  developed  nations  to  the  level  of  the  develop- 
ing nations.  Political  and  social  unrest  eventually  culminated  in  the 
military  coup  of  1973;  by  then  the  case  for  seeing  Uruguay  as  very 
different  from  the  rest  of  Latin  America  was  largely  undermined. 

During  the  sixty-year  period  from  1870  to  1930,  foreign  im- 
migrants flooded  into  Uruguay,  mainly  from  Spain  and  Italy,  to 
improve  their  standard  of  living.  A  historical  study  of  social  and 
economic  development  ranked  Uruguay  fourth  among  all  indepen- 
dent nations  in  the  world  in  the  1880s.  In  1990  Uruguay's  levels 
of  education  and  nutrition  were  still  among  the  highest  in  Latin 
America,  as  well  as  its  per  capita  ownership  of  radios,  televisions, 
and  telephones  and  its  newspaper  readership. 

However,  four  decades  of  economic  stagnation  had  seriously 
eroded  Uruguay's  lead  in  terms  of  per  capita  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP — see  Glossary).  Historically,  only  Argentina  rivaled  it  in 
Latin  America  in  terms  of  this  crucial  economic  indicator.  By  the 
middle  of  the  twentieth  century,  Uruguay  had  been  overtaken  by 
Venezuela  in  terms  of  per  capita  GDP,  and  in  1970  Chile  had 
almost  caught  up.  By  1980  so  had  Brazil,  Costa  Rica,  Panama, 
and  Mexico. 

A  study  published  by  the  United  Nations  Development  Pro- 
gramme (UNDP)  in  1990  attempted  to  rank  130  countries  of  the 
world  by  their  level  of  social  (rather  than  purely  economic)  develop- 
ment. Switzerland  was  the  richest  nation  as  measured  by  per 
capita  GDP,  adjusted  for  purchasing  power  parities.  Using  the  same 
indicator,  Uruguay  was  ranked  forty-fifth,  underlining  how  far  it 
had  fallen  economically.  Nevertheless,  Uruguay  ranked  far  higher 
on  a  composite  indicator  of  social  progress  dubbed  by  the  UNDP 
the  "Human  Development  Index."  The  index  took  into  account 
life  expectancy  and  level  of  literacy,  as  well  as  adjusted  per  capita 
GDP.  By  this  measure,  Uruguay  ranked  twenty-ninth,  immedi- 
ately above  Hungary.  Only  two  Latin  American  countries  scored 


51 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


higher  on  this  index:  Costa  Rica  (ranking  twenty-eighth)  and  Chile 
(ranking  twenty-fourth).  In  comparison,  the  United  States  ranked 
nineteenth.  Japan  had  the  highest  Human  Development  Index  of 
all. 

In  sum,  Uruguayan  society  in  1990  presented  a  contradictory 
picture  of  advanced  social  indicators  and  declining  economic  sta- 
tus. In  many  ways,  it  remained  unlike  other  Latin  American  and 
developing  countries. 

Geography 

Uruguay  is  located  in  the  Southern  Hemisphere  on  the  Atlantic 
seaboard  of  South  America  between  53°  and  58°  west  longitude 
and  30°  and  35°  south  latitude  (see  fig.  1).  It  is  bounded  on  the 
west  by  Argentina,  on  the  north  and  northeast  by  Brazil,  and  on 
the  southeast  by  the  Atlantic  Ocean.  To  the  south,  it  fronts  the 
Rio  de  la  Plata,  a  broad  estuary  that  opens  out  into  the  South 
Atlantic.  Montevideo,  the  capital  and  major  port,  sits  on  the  banks 
of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  and  is  on  approximately  the  same  latitude 
as  Capetown  and  Sydney.  Uruguay  is  the  smallest  Spanish- speaking 
nation  in  South  America  with  a  land  area  of  176,220  square  kilo- 
meters, slightly  smaller  than  North  Dakota. 

Topography  and  Hydrography 

Most  of  Uruguay  is  a  gently  rolling  plain  that  represents  a  tran- 
sition from  the  almost  featureless  Argentine  pampas  to  the  hilly 
uplands  of  southern  Brazil.  The  country  itself  has  flat  plains  on 
its  eastern,  southern,  and  western  edges.  The  narrow  Atlantic 
coastal  plain  is  sandy  and  marshy,  occasionally  broken  by  shallow 
lagoons.  The  littorals  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  and  the  Rio  Uruguay 
are  somewhat  broader  and  merge  more  gradually  into  the  hilly 
interior  (see  fig.  3). 

The  remaining  three-quarters  of  the  country  is  a  rolling  plateau 
marked  by  ranges  of  low  hills  that  become  more  prominent  in  the 
north  as  they  merge  into  the  highlands  of  southern  Brazil.  Even 
these  hilly  areas  are  remarkably  featureless,  however,  and  eleva- 
tions seldom  exceed  200  meters. 

Uruguay  is  a  water- rich  land.  Prominent  bodies  of  water  mark 
its  limits  on  the  east,  south,  and  west,  and  even  most  of  the  bound- 
ary with  Brazil  follows  small  rivers.  Lakes  and  lagoons  are  numer- 
ous, and  a  high  water  table  makes  digging  wells  easy. 

Three  systems  of  rivers  drain  the  land:  rivers  flow  westward  to 
the  Rio  Uruguay,  eastward  to  the  Atlantic  or  tidal  lagoons  bor- 
dering the  ocean,  and  south  to  the  Rio  de  la  Plata.  The  Rio  Uru- 
guay, which  forms  the  border  with  Argentina,  is  flanked  by  low 


52 


  International  boundary 

®  National  capital 
•      Populated  place 


0    20     40  Kilometers 


0  20        40  Miles 


mentation 
authoritative 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


banks,  and  disastrous  floods  sometimes  inundate  large  areas.  The 
longest  and  most  important  of  the  rivers  draining  westward  is  the 
Rio  Negro,  which  crosses  the  entire  country  from  northeast  to  west 
before  emptying  into  the  Rio  Uruguay.  A  dam  on  the  Rio  Negro 
at  Paso  de  los  Toros  has  created  a  reservoir — the  Embalse  del  Rio 
Negro — that  is  the  largest  artificial  lake  in  South  America.  The 
Rio  Negro's  principal  tributary  and  the  country's  second  most 
important  river  is  the  Rio  Yi. 

The  rivers  flowing  east  to  the  Atlantic  are  generally  shallower 
and  have  more  variable  flow  than  the  other  rivers.  Many  empty 
into  lagoons  in  the  coastal  plain.  The  largest  coastal  lagoon,  Laguna 
Merin,  forms  part  of  the  border  with  Brazil.  A  half-dozen  smaller 
lagoons,  some  freshwater  and  some  brackish,  line  the  coast  far- 
ther south. 

Climate 

Located  entirely  within  the  temperate  zone,  Uruguay  has  a  cli- 
mate that  is  fairly  uniform  nationwide.  Seasonal  variations  are 
pronounced,  but  extremes  in  temperature  are  rare.  As  would  be 
expected  by  its  abundance  of  water,  high  humidity  and  fog  are  com- 
mon. The  absence  of  mountains,  which  act  as  weather  barriers, 
makes  all  locations  vulnerable  to  high  winds  and  rapid  changes  in 
weather  as  fronts  or  storms  sweep  across  the  country. 

Seasons  are  fairly  well  defined,  and  in  most  of  Uruguay  spring 
is  usually  damp,  cool,  and  windy;  summers  are  warm;  autumns  are 
mild;  and  winters  are  chilly  and  uncomfortably  damp.  Northwestern 
Uruguay,  however,  is  farther  from  large  bodies  of  water  and  there- 
fore has  warmer  summers  and  milder  and  drier  winters  than  the 
rest  of  the  country.  Average  highs  and  lows  in  summer  (January) 
in  Montevideo  are  28°C  and  17°C,  respectively,  with  an  absolute 
maximum  of  43 °C;  comparable  numbers  for  Artigas  in  the  north- 
west are  33°C  and  18°C,  with  the  highest  temperature  ever  recorded 
42 °C.  Winter  (July)  average  highs  and  lows  in  Montevideo  are  14°C 
and  6°C,  respectively,  although  the  high  humidity  makes  the  tem- 
peratures feel  colder;  the  lowest  temperature  registered  in  Monte- 
video is  -4°C.  Averages  in  July  of  a  high  of  18°C  and  a  low  of  7°C 
in  Artigas  confirm  the  milder  winters  in  northwestern  Uruguay,  but 
even  here  temperatures  have  dropped  to  a  subfreezing  -4°C. 

Rainfall  is  fairly  evenly  distributed  throughout  the  year,  and 
annual  amounts  increase  from  southeast  to  northwest.  Montevideo 
averages  950  millimeters  annually,  and  Artigas  receives  1,235  milli- 
meters in  an  average  year.  As  in  most  temperate  climates,  rainfall 
results  from  the  passage  of  cold  fronts  in  winter,  falling  in  over- 
cast drizzly  spells,  and  summer  thunderstorms  are  frequent. 


55 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

High  winds  are  a  disagreeable  characteristic  of  the  weather,  par- 
ticularly during  the  winter  and  spring,  and  wind  shifts  are  sudden 
and  pronounced.  A  winter  warm  spell  can  be  abruptly  broken  by 
a  strong  pampero,  a  chilly  and  occasionally  violent  wind  blowing 
north  from  the  Argentine  pampas.  Summer  winds  off  the  ocean, 
however,  have  the  salutary  effect  of  tempering  warm  daytime  tem- 
peratures. 

Land  Use  and  Settlement  Patterns 

Uruguay  may  be  divided  into  four  regions,  based  on  social,  eco- 
nomic, and  geographical  factors.  The  regions  include  the  interior, 
the  littoral,  Greater  Montevideo,  and  the  coast. 

The  Interior 

This  largest  region  includes  the  departments  of  Artigas,  Cerro 
Largo,  Durazno,  Flores,  Florida,  Lavalleja,  Rivera,  Salto,  Tacua- 
rembo,  and  Treinta  y  Tres  and  the  eastern  halves  of  Paysandu, 
Rio  Negro,  and  Soriano.  The  topsoil  is  thin  and  unsuited  to  inten- 
sive agriculture,  but  it  nourishes  abundant  natural  pasture. 

Only  2  to  3  percent  of  Uruguay's  land  is  forested.  An  estimated 
3  to  4  million  hectares  (17  to  23  percent  of  the  total  land)  are  arable, 
but  only  one-third  of  this  (about  7  percent  of  the  total  productive 
land)  was  cultivated  in  1990.  Almost  all  of  the  interior  consisted 
of  cattle  and  sheep  ranches;  pasture  accounted  for  89  percent  of 
the  country's  productive  land. 

Sheep  rearing  was  typically  undertaken  on  medium-sized  farms 
concentrated  in  the  west  and  south.  It  began  to  boom  as  an  export 
industry  in  the  last  quarter  of  the  nineteenth  century,  particularly 
following  the  invention  of  barbed  wire,  which  allowed  the  easy  en- 
closure of  properties.  Uruguayan  wool  is  of  moderate  quality,  not 
quite  up  to  Australian  standards  (see  Livestock  Ranching,  ch.  3). 

Cattle  ranches,  or  estancias,  for  beef  and  hides  were  typically  quite 
large  (over  1,000  hectares)  and  were  concentrated  in  the  north  and 
east.  (Dairying  was  concentrated  in  the  department  of  Colonia.) 
Because  ranching  required  little  labor,  merely  a  few  gauchos,  the 
interior  lacked  a  peasantry  and  large  towns.  Despite  being  sparsely 
populated,  however,  the  interior  was  relatively  urbanized  in  that 
the  capital  of  each  department  usually  contained  about  half  the 
inhabitants.  Social  and  economic  development  indicators  were 
lowest  for  the  departments  along  the  Brazilian  border  to  the  north- 
east. Government  attempts  to  encourage  agricultural  colonization 
by  means  of  land  reform  in  the  interior  had  largely  failed  in  eco- 
nomic terms,  as  had  the  promotion  of  wheat  production.  One  ex- 
ception, rice,  most  of  which  was  produced  in  the  east,  had  become 


56 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


a  major  nontraditional  export  in  recent  years  (see  Crop  Produc- 
tion, ch.  3). 

The  Littoral 

Stretching  west  along  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  from  Montevideo  are 
the  agricultural  and  dairying  departments  of  San  Jose  and  Colo- 
nia.  To  the  north  along  the  Rio  Uruguay  lie  the  departments  of 
Soriano,  Rio  Negro,  and  Paysandu.  Their  western  halves  form  part 
of  the  littoral,  a  region  that  is  somewhat  more  developed  than  the 
interior.  Here  soils  are  alluvial  and  more  fertile,  favoring  crop 
production  and  farms  of  more  modest  size  than  in  the  interior. 
Citrus  cultivation  for  export  has  increased  in  the  departments  along 
the  Rio  Uruguay.  The  department  of  Colonia,  some  of  which  was 
settled  by  the  Swiss,  was  famous  for  the  production  of  milk,  but- 
ter, cheese,  and  dulce  de  leche  (a  dessert  made  from  concentrated 
milk  and  sugar).  Most  wheat  (in  which  Uruguay  was  self-sufficient) 
also  was  produced  in  this  region. 

Construction  with  Argentina  of  the  Salto  Grande  Dam  across 
the  Rio  Uruguay  north  of  Salto  was  a  major  boost  to  the  develop- 
ment of  the  northern  littoral  in  the  1970s.  By  contrast,  the  closure 
of  the  famous  meat-packing  plant  at  Fray  Bentos  in  the  depart- 
ment of  Rio  Negro  transformed  it  into  a  virtual  ghost  town.  Far- 
ther south,  the  littoral  economy  had  benefited  from  completion  of 
the  General  Artigas  Bridge  across  the  Rio  Uruguay  from  Paysandu 
to  the  Argentine  province  of  Entre  Rios.  However,  the  advent  of 
a  convenient  (if  circuitous)  land  route  from  Montevideo  to  Buenos 
Aires  via  the  new  bridge  reduced  freight  and  passenger  traffic 
through  the  small  port  of  Colonia  on  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  just  oppo- 
site the  Argentine  capital.  To  compensate,  the  Uruguayan  govern- 
ment encouraged  the  architectural  restoration  of  Colonia,  which 
was  originally  built  by  the  Portuguese  in  colonial  times.  By  1990 
Colonia  had  became  one  of  Uruguay's  most  historic  tourist  attrac- 
tions, and  many  of  its  houses  had  been  bought  by  vacationers  from 
Buenos  Aires. 

Greater  Montevideo 

According  to  the  1985  census,  the  population  of  the  department 
of  Montevideo  was  1,311,976,  and  that  of  the  neighboring  depart- 
ment of  Canelones  was  364,248,  out  of  a  total  population  of 
2,955,241.  Thus,  these  departments  and  the  eastern  portion  of  San 
Jose,  which  together  constituted  the  Greater  Montevideo  region, 
held  over  one-half  of  Uruguay's  population.  This  monocephalic 
pattern  of  settlement  was  more  pronounced  in  Uruguay  than  in 
any  other  nation  of  the  world,  barring  city-states.  The  1985  census 


57 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


DEPARTMENT 


MONTEVIDEO 


CANELONES 


COLONIA 
MALDONADO 
SAN  JOSE 


PAYSANDU 
RIVERA 
SALTO 
SORIANO 

ARTIGAS 
CERRO  LARGO 
FLORIDA 
LAVALLEJA 
ROCHA 

DURAZNO 
FLORES 
RIO  NEGRO 
TACUAREMB6 
TREINTA  YTRES 


y///////A 


80 


19 


i  i  i  1 1|  1  1   i  I  i  i  1 1|  r— t — I— r 

10  100 
INHABITANTS  PER  SQUARE  KILOMETER 


2.475 


TTI 

1,000  2,500 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Uruguay,  Direccion  General  de  Estadfstica  y  Censos, 
Anuario  estadistico,  1988,  Montevideo,  1989. 


Figure  4.  Average  Population  Density  by  Department,  1985 

indicated  a  population  density  of  about  2,475  inhabitants  per  square 
kilometer  in  the  department  of  Montevideo  and  about  80  inhabi- 
tants per  square  kilometer  in  the  department  of  Canelones.  Densities 
elsewhere  in  the  country  were  dramatically  lower  (see  fig.  4;  table  2, 
Appendix). 

Montevideo  was  originally  founded  on  a  promontory  beside  a 
large  bay  that  forms  a  perfect  natural  harbor.  In  the  nineteenth 
century,  the  British  promoted  it  as  a  rival  port  to  Buenos  Aires. 
The  city  has  expanded  to  such  an  extent  that  by  1990  it  covered 
most  of  the  department.  The  original  area  of  settlement,  known 
as  the  Old  City,  lies  adjacent  to  the  port,  but  the  central  business 
district  and  the  middle-class  residential  areas  have  moved  eastward. 
The  only  exception  to  this  pattern  of  eastward  expansion  is  that 
banking  and  finance  continued  to  cluster  in  the  Old  City  around 


58 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  Stock  Exchange,  the  Bank  of  Uruguay  (Banco  de  la  Republica 
Oriental  del  Uruguay — BROU),  and  the  Central  Bank  of  Uruguay. 

Since  the  1950s,  Montevideo's  prosperous  middle  classes  have 
tended  to  abandon  the  formerly  fashionable  downtown  areas  for 
the  more  modern  high-rise  apartment  buildings  of  Pocitos,  a  beach- 
front neighborhood  east  of  the  center.  Still  farther  east  lies  the 
expensive  area  of  Carrasco,  a  zone  of  modern  luxury  villas  that 
has  come  to  replace  the  old  neighborhood  of  El  Prado  in  the  north 
of  the  city  as  home  to  the  country's  wealthy  elite.  Its  beaches  were 
less  polluted  than  those  closer  to  the  center.  Montevideo's  Carrasco 
International  Airport  is  located  there.  The  capital's  principal  artery, 
18th  of  July  Avenue,  was  long  the  principal  shopping  street  of 
Montevideo,  but  it  has  been  hurt  since  the  mid-1980s  by  the  con- 
struction of  a  modern  shopping  mall  strategically  located  between 
Pocitos  and  Carrasco. 

Montevideo's  poorer  neighborhoods  tended  to  be  located  in  the 
north  of  the  city  and  around  the  bay  in  the  areas  of  industrial 
activity.  However,  the  degree  of  spatial  separation  of  social  classes 
was  moderate  by  the  standards  of  other  cities  in  South  America. 
Starting  in  the  1970s,  the  city  began  to  acquire  a  belt  of  shantytowns 
around  its  outskirts,  but  in  1990  these  remained  small  compared 
with  Rio  de  Janeiro  or  Guayaquil,  for  example.  About  60,000  fam- 
ilies lived  in  such  shantytowns,  known  in  Uruguay  as  cantegriles. 
An  intensive  program  of  public  housing  construction  was  under- 
taken in  the  1970s  and  1980s,  but  it  had  not  solved  the  problem 
by  1990. 

In  1990  Greater  Montevideo  was  by  far  the  most  developed 
region  of  Uruguay  and  dominated  the  nation  economically  and  cul- 
turally. It  was  home  to  the  country's  two  universities,  its  principal 
hospitals,  and  most  of  its  communications  media  (television  stations, 
radio  stations,  newspapers,  and  magazines).  Attempts  by  the  mili- 
tary governments  from  1973  to  1985  to  promote  the  development 
of  the  north  of  the  country  (partly  for  strategic  reasons)  failed  to 
change  this  pattern  of  extreme  centralization.  In  one  way,  however, 
they  achieved  a  major  success:  the  introduction  of  direct  dialing 
revolutionized  the  country's  long-distance  telephone  system.  By 
contrast,  the  local  telephone  network  in  Montevideo  remained  so 
hopelessly  antiquated  and  unreliable  that  many  firms  relied  on 
courier  services  to  get  messages  to  other  downtown  businesses. 

Until  the  construction  boom  of  the  late  1970s,  relatively  few 
modern  buildings  had  been  constructed.  In  many  parts  of  the  center, 
elegant  nineteenth-century  houses  built  around  a  central  patio  were 
still  to  be  seen  in  1990.  In  some  cases,  the  patio  was  open  to  the 
air,  but  in  most  cases  it  was  covered  by  a  skylight,  some  of  which 


59 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

were  made  of  elaborate  stained  glass.  Few  of  these  houses  were 
used  for  single-family  occupancy,  however,  and  many  had  been 
converted  into  low-cost  apartments. 

The  middle  classes  preferred  to  live  in  more  modern  apartments 
near  the  city  center  or  the  University  of  the  Republic.  Alterna- 
tively, they  might  purchase  a  single-family  villa  with  a  small  yard 
at  the  back.  Many  of  these  were  close  to  the  beaches  running  east 
from  the  downtown  along  the  avenue  known  as  the  Rambla.  In 
Pocitos,  however,  high-rise  apartments  had  replaced  the  single- 
family  homes  on  those  streets  closest  to  the  beach. 

The  Coast 

Stretching  east  from  Montevideo  along  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  are 
the  departments  of  Canelones,  Maldonado,  and  Rocha.  The  in- 
land portion  of  Canelones  is  an  area  of  small  farms  and  truck 
gardens,  which  produce  vegetables  for  the  capital.  It  was  relatively 
poor  in  1990.  Many  inhabitants  of  the  department's  small  towns 
also  commuted  to  jobs  in  Montevideo  by  express  bus.  Along  the 
coast  lie  a  string  of  small  seaside  towns  (balnearios),  from  which  more 
prosperous  employees  had  also  begun  to  commute.  Farther  east 
in  the  highly  developed  department  of  Maldonado  lies  the  major 
resort  of  Punta  del  Este.  This  has  been  developed  as  a  fashionable 
playground  more  for  Argentines  than  for  average  Uruguayans,  who 
found  it  too  expensive.  With  its  hotels,  restaurants,  casino,  and 
nightclubs,  Punta  del  Este  was  a  major  export  earner,  and  it  domi- 
nated Uruguay's  tourism  industry  (see  Tourism,  ch.  3). 

Vacationing  Uruguayans  of  more  modest  means  were  concen- 
trated in  smaller  resorts  such  as  Piriapolis  and  Atlantida,  which 
are  closer  to  Montevideo.  Beyond  Punta  del  Este  in  the  still  most- 
ly undeveloped  department  of  Rocha,  a  number  of  communities 
had  sprouted  along  the  unspoiled  Atlantic  coast  with  its  miles  of 
sandy  beaches  and  huge  breakers.  These  small  vacation  com- 
munities— such  as  Aguas  Dulces  and  Cabo  Polonio,  both  in  Rocha 
Department — were  entirely  unplanned  and  lacked  essential  ser- 
vices. In  many  cases,  simple  holiday  chalets  had  been  built  on  public 
property  adjoining  the  seashore  without  any  legal  title  to  the  land. 
In  1990  the  authorities  in  Rocha  Department  announced  plans  to 
regulate  and  improve  this  development  in  hopes  of  encouraging 
visits  by  higher- spending  tourists. 

Regional  Development 

Uruguay's  regions  differed  markedly  not  only  in  population  size 
and  density  but  also  in  their  indexes  of  social  and  economic 
development,  including  education,  health  care,  communications, 


60 


61 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


energy  consumption,  and  industrialization.  Least  developed  were 
the  northern  ranching  departments  along  the  Brazilian  border — 
Artigas,  Rivera,  and  Cerro  Largo — and  also  Tacuarembo.  Some- 
what more  developed  was  a  band  of  six  departments  stretching 
across  the  center  of  the  country,  from  west  to  east:  Rio  Negro, 
Flores,  Florida,  Durazno,  Treinta  y  Tres,  and  Rocha.  More  in- 
dustrialized and  urbanized,  but  still  quite  poor,  were  the  depart- 
ments of  Soriano  and  Salto,  which,  as  noted  previously,  benefited 
from  the  construction  of  a  bridge  and  a  dam,  respectively,  across 
the  Rio  Uruguay  in  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s.  The  two  re- 
maining western  departments — Colonia  and  Paysandii — were  the 
most  developed  of  the  littoral. 

Three  departments  close  to  Montevideo — San  Jose,  Canelones, 
and  Lavalleja — presented  a  contradictory  picture  of  relatively 
advanced  economic  development  combined  with  low  indexes  of 
social  modernization.  Finally,  Montevideo  and  the  department  of 
Maldonado  (which  is  strongly  affected  by  the  tourism  industry  in 
Punta  del  Este)  had  the  highest  indexes  of  social  and  economic 
development  in  the  country  (see  table  3,  Appendix). 

Population 

In  1988  Uruguay's  population  was  estimated  at  3,081,000,  up 
somewhat  from  the  2,955,241  inhabitants  recorded  in  the  1985 
census.  From  1981  to  1988,  the  population  growth  rate  averaged 
about  0.7  percent  per  year.  In  South  America,  only  Guyana  and 
Suriname  had  a  lower  growth  rate.  According  to  projections,  the 
growth  rate  would  continue  in  the  0.6  to  0.7  range  through  the 
year  2020,  resulting  in  an  estimated  total  population  of  3,152,000 
in  1995,  3,264,000  in  2000,  and  3,679,000  in  2020  (see  table  4, 
Appendix). 

A  major  factor  in  Uruguay's  low  population  growth  rate  was 
its  relatively  low  birth  rate.  The  average  birth  rate  for  1990  was 
the  lowest  in  Latin  America  at  just  17  per  1,000  inhabitants.  Sig- 
nificant levels  of  emigration  also  inhibited  the  growth  of  the  popu- 
lation. At  the  same  time,  the  average  life  expectancy  of  Uruguayans 
(seventy  years  for  men  and  seventy-six  years  for  women  in  1990) 
was  relatively  high.  Together,  the  comparatively  low  birth  rate, 
net  emigration,  and  long  life  expectancy  gave  Uruguay  an  aging 
population  with  a  pyramidal  structure  more  typical  of  a  developed 
country  than  of  a  developing  country  (see  fig.  5). 

In  addition  to  its  remarkably  low  population  growth  rate,  low 
birth  rate,  high  life  expectancy,  and  aging  population,  Uruguay 
also  was  notable  for  its  extremely  high  level  of  urbanization.  Ac- 
cording to  the  1985  census,  87  percent  of  Uruguay's  population 


62 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


could  be  classified  as  urban.  Moreover,  this  trend  was  expected 
to  continue  because  the  urban  population  was  continuing  to  grow 
at  a  faster  rate  than  the  population  as  a  whole,  while  the  rural  popu- 
lation growth  rate  was  well  under  that  for  the  total  population.  In 
the  1981-88  period,  Uruguay's  urban  population  grew  at  a  rate 
of  0.9  percent,  while  its  rural  population  grew  at  a  rate  of  only 
0.3  percent  (as  compared  with  a  total  population  growth  rate  of 
0.7  percent). 

Ethnically,  Uruguay  enjoyed  a  high  level  of  homogeneity.  Its 
population  was  estimated  to  be  nearly  90  percent  white,  having 
descended  from  the  original  Spanish  colonists  as  well  as  from  the 
many  European  immigrants,  chiefly  from  Spain  and  Italy,  who 
flocked  to  Uruguay  in  the  late  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth  cen- 
turies. (The  remainder  were  primarily  black  and  mestizo,  or  peo- 
ple of  mixed  Indian  and  European  ancestry.) 

Historical  Patterns  of  Settlement 

First  administered  from  Buenos  Aires,  Uruguay  came  into  being 
as  an  independent  nation  in  1828  when  the  British  intervened  to 
create  a  buffer  (and  client)  state  between  Argentina  and  Brazil. 
The  fact  that  Uruguay  was  scarcely  settled  beyond  a  thin  coastal 
strip  during  the  colonial  period  meant  that  unlike  many  other  areas 
of  Latin  America,  little  of  its  colonial  heritage  survived.  The  Brit- 
ish dominated  the  country's  economic  and  commercial  develop- 
ment until  World  War  I.  In  marked  distinction  to  Chile's  or  Peru's 
minerals,  however,  Uruguay's  prime  productive  asset  (land)  re- 
mained in  the  hands  of  Uruguayans,  or  at  least  settlers  who  wanted 
to  become  Uruguayans. 

Shordy  after  independence,  civil  war  broke  out  between  the  two 
political  factions  that  came  to  form  Uruguay's  traditional  parties, 
the  Colorado  Party  (Partido  Colorado)  and  the  National  Party  (Par- 
tido  Nacional,  usually  referred  to  as  the  Blancos).  Military  con- 
flicts between  caudillos  on  both  sides  were  to  recur  frequently  until 
1904.  The  main  cause  of  conflict  was  the  rivalry  between  center 
and  periphery:  in  Montevideo  the  Colorados  predominated,  but 
in  the  interior  the  Blancos  wished  to  preserve  their  control.  A  dic- 
tatorship by  a  Colorado  caudillo,  Lorenzo  Latorre  (1876-80),  im- 
posed strict  order  in  the  countryside.  Concurrently,  Uruguay's 
exports  of  beef  products  and  wool  to  Europe  began  to  boom. 

After  1911  massive  growth  of  frozen  meat  exports  revived  the 
profitability  of  the  large  cattle  ranches  that  had  been  somewhat 
eclipsed  after  the  1860s  by  medium- sized  sheep  farms.  By  World 
War  I,  two- fifths  of  the  nation's  farmland  was  in  the  hands  of  large 
landowners  (the  3  to  4  percent  of  proprietors  who  had  over  2,000 


63 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Uruguay,  Direccion  General  de  Estadfstica  y  Censos, 
Anuario  estadistico,  1988,  Montevideo,  1989. 


Figure  5.  Population  by  Age  and  Sex,  1985 

hectares).  However,  historians  have  argued  that  Uruguay's  rural 
society  was  "pluralist"  in  character.  Thus,  along  with  the  big  land- 
owners {latifundistas)  and  smallholders  (minifundistas),  a  middle  sector 
had  arisen,  constituting  40  percent  of  the  proprietors  and  accounting 
for  55  percent  of  the  land. 

Contemporary  Ethnic  Composition 

In  1990  about  88  percent  of  Uruguay's  population  was  white 
and  descended  from  Europeans,  and  the  nation  has  always  looked 
to  Europe  for  its  cultural  cues.  Eight  percent  of  the  population  was 
mestizo,  and  4  percent  was  black.  Although  in  1990  Uruguay  had 
an  aging  population,  it  was  once  a  young  nation  of  immigrants. 
According  to  the  1908  census,  over  two-fifths  of  the  population  was 
foreign  born.  While  the  descendants  of  the  original  Spanish  colonists 


64 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


(known  as  criollos)  predominated  in  the  interior,  the  origins  of  the 
population  were  varied  in  the  densely  populated  areas  of  Monte- 
video and  the  coast.  In  these  areas,  citizens  of  Italian  descent  were 
particularly  numerous,  constituting  as  much  as  one-third  of  the 
population. 

In  1990  estimates  of  the  number  of  Uruguayans  of  African  de- 
scent ranged  from  as  low  as  40,000  to  as  high  as  130,000  (about 
4  percent).  In  Montevideo,  many  of  them  traditionally  made  a  living 
as  musicians  or  entertainers.  Few  had  been  allowed  to  achieve  high 
social  status.  As  many  as  three-quarters  of  black  women  aged  eigh- 
teen to  forty  were  employed  in  domestic  service.  In  the  interior, 
citizens  of  African  or  mixed  descent  were  concentrated  along  the 
Brazilian  border.  Early  in  the  twentieth  century,  the  traditional 
folkways  of  Afro-Uruguayans  were  captured  in  the  impressionist 
paintings  of  Pedro  Figari.  Although  vestiges  of  African  culture  sur- 
vived in  the  annual  carnival  celebrations  known  as  the  Llamadas, 
Uruguay's  black  population  was  relatively  assimilated  in  1990. 

Uruguay's  Indian  population  had  virtually  disappeared  and  was 
no  longer  in  evidence  in  1990.  Even  the  mestizo,  or  mixed-race, 
population  was  small — 8  percent — by  Latin  American  standards. 
In  1990  signs  of  intermarriage  between  whites  and  Indians  were 
common  only  in  the  interior.  The  slightly  derogatory  term  chino 
was  still  applied  by  the  inhabitants  of  Montevideo  to  the  somewhat 
darker- skinned  migrants  from  the  interior. 

Montevideo  also  had  a  highly  assimilated  Jewish  population  of 
some  importance.  Estimated  at  40,000  in  1970,  the  Jewish  com- 
munity had  fallen  to  about  25,000  by  the  late  1980s  as  a  result  of 
emigration,  particularly  to  Israel.  Anti-Semitism  was  not  uncom- 
mon, but  it  was  less  virulent  than,  for  example,  in  Argentina. 

Fertility,  Mortality,  and  Population  Growth 

Uruguay's  population  has  grown  slowly  throughout  its  history, 
reaching  the  1  million  mark  early  in  the  twentieth  century.  In  the 
twentieth  century,  the  rate  of  population  growth  declined  stead- 
ily, however,  despite  significant  amounts  of  immigration  and  vir- 
tually halted  in  the  1950s.  Registered  at  over  2  percent  in  1916, 
the  annual  growth  rate  had  dropped  to  1 .4  percent  by  1937.  It  con- 
tinued in  the  1.2  to  1.5  percent  range  until  1960,  but  in  the  1960s 
population  growth  averaged  only  1  percent  annually.  In  the  1970s, 
the  average  annual  growth  rate  was  even  lower,  at  0.4  percent. 
In  the  1981-88  period,  annual  population  growth  was  0.7  percent, 
but  in  1990  it  was  0.6  percent. 

A  major  contributor  to  the  slow  population  growth  rate  was 
Uruguay's  low,  and  declining,  crude  birth  rate.  It  fell  steadily 


65 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

throughout  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century,  from  38.9  per 
1,000  population  in  the  1900-04  period  to  21.1  per  1,000  in  the 
1945-49  period,  where  it  more  or  less  stabilized  through  the 
mid-1960s.  In  the  1980-85  period,  the  birth  rate  was  19.5  per  1,000. 
In  1987  it  was  estimated  at  17.5,  and  in  1990  it  was  estimated  at 
17  per  1,000.  (In  comparison,  the  birth  rates  for  Argentina,  Brazil, 
and  the  United  States  in  1990  were  20  per  1,000,  26  per  1,000, 
and  15  per  1,000,  respectively.)  This  relatively  low  birth  rate  was 
usually  ascribed  to  Uruguay's  prosperity  and  the  widespread  avail- 
ability of  contraception.  Given  the  secularization  of  Uruguayan 
society  at  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  the  influence  of 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church  was  minor  (see  Religion,  this  ch.). 
The  total  fertility  rate  in  1990  was  2.4  children  born  per  woman. 

The  crude  death  rate,  which  had  averaged  14  to  15  per  1,000 
since  the  1895-99  period,  began  to  decline  significantly  starting 
in  the  1920s.  In  the  1940s,  it  reached  10  per  1,000,  and  it  has  stayed 
at  approximately  this  level  ever  since.  In  1987  the  crude  death  rate 
was  estimated  at  9.5  per  1,000  and  in  1990  at  10  per  1,000. 

Advances  in  medicine  resulted  in  longer  life  expectancy.  Uru- 
guay's General  Directorate  of  Statistics  and  Census  noted  that  over- 
all life  expectancy  in  the  1984-86  period  was  71.6  years  (68.4  years 
for  men  and  74.9  years  for  women).  Estimates  in  1990  placed  life 
expectancy  for  males  at  seventy  years  and  that  for  females  at 
seventy-six  years.  Because  Uruguayans  were  living  longer,  the 
population  began  to  age.  By  the  census  year  of  1963,  demographers 
already  were  beginning  to  worry  that  the  rising  proportion  of  the 
population  in  retirement  might  overstrain  the  country's  social  secu- 
rity system  (see  Social  Security  Pensions,  this  ch.).  The  1975  and 
1985  censuses  confirmed  the  acceleration  of  this  aging  trend.  The 
trend  was  aggravated  as  net  immigration,  which  had  character- 
ized Uruguay  in  the  early  twentieth  century,  gave  way  to  net 
emigration  and  the  exodus  in  particular  of  young,  well-educated 
Uruguayans. 

Urbanization 

In  the  nineteenth  century,  Uruguay  was  already  highly  ur- 
banized. But  in  the  twentieth  century,  it  has  been  one  of  the  world's 
most  urbanized  states.  According  to  the  1985  census,  87  percent 
of  Uruguayans  lived  in  urban  areas,  the  highest  percentage  in  Latin 
America.  The  department  of  Montevideo  alone  accounted  for  44 
percent  of  the  country's  population;  the  department  of  Canelones 
accounted  for  another  12  percent.  Furthermore,  the  interior  of  Uru- 
guay, although  sparsely  populated,  was  also  quite  urban.  Census 
figures  from  1985  indicate  that  even  outside  Montevideo  over  80 


66 


A  flea  market  in  Montevideo 
Courtesy  Edmundo  Flores 

percent  of  the  country's  inhabitants  could  be  classified  as  *  'urban," 
i.e.,  living  in  towns  of  2,000  inhabitants  or  more.  Most  of  these 
townspeople  lived  in  the  departmental  capitals. 

Uruguay's  level  of  urbanization  seemed  likely  to  continue  to  rise, 
based  on  estimates  of  the  growth  rate  of  the  urban  population  vis- 
a-vis that  of  the  population  as  a  whole  and  that  of  the  rural  popu- 
lation. During  the  1960s,  the  urban  population  grew  at  an  annual 
rate  of  1.7  percent,  while  the  overall  population  growth  rate  was 
only  1.0  percent.  In  the  1970s,  the  growth  rates  were  0.6  and  0.4 
percent,  respectively.  For  the  1981-88  period,  the  overall  popula- 
tion growth  rate  was  0.7  percent,  while  the  urban  population  grew 
by  0.9  percent  and  the  rural  population  by  only  0.3  percent. 

Migration 

Rural  depopulation  has  been  a  striking  trend  in  Uruguay  dur- 
ing the  twentieth  century.  According  to  the  1975  census,  one-fifth 
of  those  citizens  born  in  the  eighteen  interior,  littoral,  and  coastal 
departments  lived  in  Montevideo.  The  departments  that  produced 
the  highest  flow  of  outward  migration  between  the  1963  and  1975 
censuses  were  in  the  interior  of  the  country.  In  the  littoral  and 
coastal  departments  (except  the  department  of  Rocha),  the  greater 
net  retention  of  population  correlated  with  the  growth  of  the  local 


67 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


urban  population.  This  showed  that  people  tended  to  stay  in  the 
department  where  they  were  born  if  there  were  local  towns  to  which 
they  could  move.  Otherwise,  they  moved  farther  afield. 

Migration  in  Uruguay  thus  appeared  to  follow  the  classic  pat- 
tern by  which  those  born  in  isolated  rural  areas  moved  to  the  nearest 
towns,  whereas  those  born  in  interior  towns  headed  for  Montevideo. 
Montevideans,  in  turn,  sought  to  migrate  to  large  cities  in  Latin 
America,  notably  Buenos  Aires,  where  their  accents  and  customs 
blended  successfully  and  where  wages  were  much  higher  on  average. 

Emigration 

Since  the  1950s,  Uruguay's  traditional  pattern  of  net  immigra- 
tion has  given  way  to  a  severe  pattern  of  emigration,  which  has 
been  of  concern  to  the  authorities.  This  was  particularly  worrisome 
because  those  most  likely  to  leave  were  the  youngest  and  best- 
educated  citizens.  The  emigration  of  youth  and  the  country's  aging 
population  had  created  a  very  high  dependency  ratio  and  serious 
difficulties  for  Uruguay's  social  security  system.  A  famous  piece 
of  black-humored  graffiti  in  the  port  of  Montevideo  in  the  early 
1970s  read:  "Last  one  to  leave,  please  turn  off  the  lights!"  Esti- 
mates of  emigration  as  high  as  one-third  of  the  population  have, 
however,  been  wildly  exaggerated. 

Economics  motivated  emigration  in  the  1960s,  but  political 
repression  became  a  major  factor  during  the  1973-85  military  re- 
gime. Official  figures  suggest  that  180,000  people  left  Uruguay  from 
1963  to  1975.  In  1973  about  30,000  left,  in  1974  nearly  60,000, 
and  in  1975  nearly  40,000.  According  to  the  General  Directorate 
of  Statistics  and  Census,  150,000  Uruguayans  left  the  country  be- 
tween 1975  and  1985.  By  1989  only  16,500  of  them  had  returned. 
If  the  180,000  who  left  between  1963  and  1975  are  added,  the  propor- 
tion of  the  population  that  emigrated  from  1963  to  1985  can  be  es- 
timated at  about  one- tenth.  Along  with  the  low  birth  rate,  this  is 
the  major  explanation  for  the  country's  low  population  growth  rate. 

Most  of  the  emigrants  were  young.  Of  those  who  emigrated  be- 
tween 1963  and  1975,  17.7  percent  were  aged  fourteen  or  younger, 
68  percent  were  between  the  ages  of  fifteen  and  thirty-nine,  and 
only  14.3  percent  were  forty  years  or  older.  Those  leaving  were 
on  average  also  better  educated  than  the  total  population.  Only 
1 .5  percent  were  uneducated,  52. 1  percent  had  completed  primary 
school,  33.6  percent  had  attended  secondary  school  or  teachers' 
training  colleges,  and  12.8  percent  had  attended  university  or  tech- 
nical college. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  lack  of  jobs  for  young  people  was  again 
a  fundamental  factor  contributing  to  emigration.  Those  people 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


leaving  Uruguay  were  not  only  younger  and  better  educated  than 
the  population  as  a  whole  but  also  tended  to  have  more  job  skills. 
Among  those  aged  fourteen  and  older  who  emigrated  from  1 963  to 
1975  and  who  were  economically  active,  the  relative  proportions  of 
different  occupations  were  as  follows:  professionals,  technicians,  man- 
agers, and  administrators  made  up  12.8  percent,  2.9  percentage 
points  higher  than  in  the  economically  active  population  (EAP)  as 
a  whole  in  1975;  office  employees  constituted  16  percent  of  those  emi- 
grating, 4.3  points  above  their  share  of  the  EAP;  salespeople  made 
up  12.4  percent  of  emigrants,  2  points  above  the  EAP;  and  drivers, 
skilled  and  unskilled  workers,  and  day  laborers  constituted  34.2  per- 
cent of  the  EAP  in  1975,  but  47.6  percent  of  those  emigrating. 

On  the  one  hand,  the  proportion  of  emigrants  who  had  worked 
as  domestic  servants  was  10.4  percent,  close  to  their  share  of  the 
EAP.  On  the  other  hand,  whereas  18.2  percent  of  the  EAP  was 
classified  as  farmers  and  fishermen  in  1975,  these  made  up  only 
0.8  percent  of  those  leaving  the  country  in  the  previous  twelve  years. 

By  far  the  most  popular  destination  for  Uruguayan  emigrants 
was  Argentina,  which  in  the  first  half  of  the  1970s  took  over  one- 
half  of  the  emigrants.  Also  important  were  the  United  States  and 
Australia,  followed  by  Spain,  Brazil,  and  Venezuela.  Small  num- 
bers of  artists,  intellectuals,  and  politicians  experiencing  persecu- 
tion emigrated  to  Western  Europe,  notably  to  the  Netherlands  and 
Spain.  Many  of  these  political  exiles,  however,  chose  to  return  to 
Uruguay  after  1984. 

The  Uruguayan  community  in  Argentina  was  officially  given 
as  58,000  in  1970  but  was  actually  much  larger.  Many  Uruguayans 
in  Argentina  returned  to  Montevideo  at  election  time  to  vote.  Po- 
litical exiles  were  allowed  to  return  to  Uruguay  after  1984,  but  many 
of  them  found  it  difficult  to  make  a  living.  This  was  even  true  in 
those  cases  where  they  had  the  right  to  return  to  former  govern- 
ment posts,  for  example  in  education.  Often  they  expressed  shock 
at  the  decay  of  public  services  and  the  dilapidated  state  of  build- 
ings compared  with  their  memories  of  Montevideo. 

Social  Classes 

By  Latin  American  standards,  Uruguay  is  a  relatively  egalitar- 
ian society  with  a  large  middle  class.  One  factor  that  historically 
helped  the  country  avoid  social  polarization  was  the  broad  provi- 
sion of  free  public  education  by  the  state  starting  in  the  1870s.  Eco- 
nomic stagnation  since  the  1950s  has  reduced  the  opportunities  for 
upward  social  mobility,  but  the  incidence  of  extreme  wealth  and 
poverty  still  approximated  the  pattern  of  developed  countries  rather 
than  that  of  developing  countries. 


69 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Uruguay's  upper  classes  consisted  of  ranchers,  businessmen,  and 
politicians.  The  middle  classes  included  professionals,  white-collar 
workers,  small  businessmen,  and  medium-sized  farmers.  The  lower 
classes  consisted  of  blue-collar  workers,  domestic  workers,  a  small 
number  of  peasants,  and  those  forced  to  survive  precariously  in 
the  informal  sector  of  the  economy. 

Estimates  of  the  proportion  of  different  sectors  of  the  popula- 
tion in  each  class  are  by  definition  arbitrary.  The  upper  classes 
are  conventionally  held  to  constitute  5  percent  of  the  citizenry,  but 
the  relative  sizes  of  the  middle  and  lower  classes  have  been  much 
debated.  In  the  1950s,  mainstream  sociologists  estimated  that  the 
middle  classes  constituted  as  much  as  two-thirds  of  the  population. 
More  radical  writers  in  the  1960s  suggested  a  figure  as  low  as  one- 
third.  A  reasonable  figure,  however,  would  be  45  percent,  a  propor- 
tion broadly  consistent  with  the  occupational  structure  revealed  by 
census  data.  This  left  half  the  population  in  the  lower-class  category, 
although  it  must  be  stressed  that  class  differences  in  Uruguay  were 
far  less  pronounced  than  in  much  of  Latin  America. 

The  Ranching  Elite 

Compared  with  their  counterparts  on  the  Argentine  pampas, 
Uruguay's  latifundistas  (large  landholders)  never  achieved  the  same 
level  of  social  and  political  preeminence.  Constituting  a  tiny  frac- 
tion of  the  population,  they  nevertheless  controlled  the  bulk  of  the 
nation's  land,  which  they  typically  used  for  cattle  and  sheep  ranch- 
ing (see  Land  Use  and  Tenure,  ch.  3).  Intermarriage  with  newer 
urban  commercial  elites  was  common,  but  many  of  the  ranchers 
descended  from  colonial  Spanish  settlers.  Those  who  could  afford 
it  ran  their  ranches  as  absentee  landlords,  spending  as  much  of 
the  year  as  possible  in  Montevideo.  Their  children  were  tradition- 
ally educated  in  private  schools,  which  were  either  Roman  Catholic 
or  English-speaking  schools.  Originally  founded  for  the  children 
of  expatriates,  the  latter  institutions  continued  to  model  themselves 
on  Britain's  elite  private  schools. 

For  the  ranchers,  the  social  event  of  the  year  was  the  annual 
agricultural  show  at  the  Prado,  a  park  in  Montevideo,  where  prizes 
were  awarded  for  the  best  breeds  of  cattle  and  sheep  and  where 
the  latest  farm  machinery  was  displayed.  Politically,  the  ranchers 
were  organized  in  the  Rural  Federation  (Federation  Rural),  which 
acted  as  a  pressure  group  for  their  interests.  Because  the  incomes 
of  the  ranchers  varied  with  the  profitability  of  beef  and  wool  ex- 
ports, they  were  constantiy  lobbying  the  government  for  favorable 
tax  and  exchange-rate  policies.  Under  military  rule  from  1973  to 
1985,  they  were  deprived  of  much  of  their  influence,  and  thus  many 


70 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


of  them  turned  against  the  government.  Historically,  the  majority 
of  ranchers  voted  for  the  National  Party  rather  than  the  Colorado 
Party.  However,  the  distinction  has  tended  to  break  down.  One 
factor  in  this  breakdown  was  the  emergence  in  the  1950s  of  a  non- 
party Ruralist  movement  called  the  Federal  League  for  Rural  Action 
(Liga  Federal  de  Accion  Rural — LFAR),  which  allied  with  differ- 
ent parties  in  successive  elections. 

Uruguay's  rural  society  remained  much  more  rigidly  hierarchi- 
cal than  its  urban  society,  and  status  differences  were  pronounced. 
This  was  also  true  of  towns  outside  the  Montevideo  region,  where 
the  majority  of  the  interior  population  lived. 

Business  Elites 

Uruguay's  commercial,  financial,  and  industrial  elites  were  more 
cosmopolitan  than  the  big  ranchers.  However,  the  high  number 
of  basic  industries  and  utilities  run  by  the  state  meant  that  large 
private  entrepreneurs  were  less  numerous  than  would  otherwise 
be  the  case.  The  urban-rural  divide  was  no  longer  very  pronounced: 
traditional  landowning  families  had  diversified  into  food  process- 
ing and  other  businesses,  while  the  sons  and  daughters  of  business- 
men were  ensured  a  private  education.  Until  1984  there  was  only 
one  university  in  the  country,  the  University  of  the  Republic  (also 
known  as  the  University  of  Montevideo);  it  served  as  a  major  force 
for  miscegenation  among  elites  and  even  among  the  middle  classes. 

Foreign  multinational  corporations  were  less  active  in  Uruguay 
than  in  many  other  Latin  American  countries  because  of  the  small 
size  of  its  domestic  market.  One  exception  to  this,  however,  was 
the  banking  system,  which  was  heavily  taken  over  by  European  and 
North  American  conglomerates  in  the  1970s  and  1980s.  A  pattern 
of  close  cooperation  between  domestic  and  foreign  business  interests 
had  emerged  on  the  basis  of  joint  ventures  and  licensing  agreements. 

Urban  business  interests  were  organized  in  two  rival  associa- 
tions: the  Chamber  of  Industry,  which  was  dominated  by  indus- 
trial manufacturers,  and  the  Chamber  of  Commerce,  which  was 
more  oriented  toward  services  and  retail  trades.  The  Chamber  of 
Commerce  was  enthusiastic  about  the  liberalization  of  imports  and 
the  maintenance  of  a  strong  currency  from  1977  to  1982.  By  con- 
trast, foreign  competition  hit  industry  hard,  accustomed  as  it  was 
to  the  high  rates  of  protection  given  by  the  previous  model  of  import- 
substitution  industrialization  (see  Glossary). 

Political  Elites 

Uruguay's  party  leaders  were  sometimes  viewed  as  forming  a 
"political  class."  Many  of  the  surnames  of  those  active  in  politics 


71 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

in  the  1980s  would  have  been  familiar  to  Uruguayans  a  century 
earlier.  Blanco  leaders  were  more  likely  than  Colorados  to  have 
attended  private  secondary  schools  and  to  describe  themselves  as 
practicing  Catholics,  although  this  distinction  was  breaking  down. 
With  the  exception  of  an  apparent  increase  in  the  late  1960s,  these 
politicians  only  rarely  had  business  careers,  apart  from  ranchers 
in  the  National  Party.  Rather,  most  made  their  living  as  lawyers 
and  as  public  servants. 

The  leaders  of  Uruguay's  leftist  parties  were  drawn  from  a  some- 
what wider  spectrum  of  backgrounds  than  the  Colorados  and  Blan- 
cos.  Among  the  leaders  of  the  former  were  many  white-collar 
workers,  especially  educators,  and  a  few  labor  union  leaders. 

The  power  of  traditional  political  bosses,  or  caudillos,  has  resided 
in  their  ability  to  mobilize  voters  by  means  of  patronage  machines. 
This  system  of  doling  out  favors,  such  as  public-sector  jobs  and 
pensions,  through  local  political  clubs  had,  nevertheless,  declined 
by  1990.  Young  voters  were  more  motivated  by  ideology  than  their 
parents,  which  is  one  reason  that  the  membership  of  Uruguay's 
leftist  parties  was  growing,  whereas  that  of  the  traditional  National 
and  Colorado  parties  was  declining. 

The  Middle  Class 

Uruguay  has  often  been  described  as  the  most  middle-class  nation 
in  Latin  America.  In  this  social  category  were  to  be  found  civil 
servants,  teachers,  white-collar  workers,  small  businessmen,  officers 
in  the  military,  and  medium-sized  farmers.  Economic  crises  since 
the  1960s  have,  nevertheless,  squeezed  this  sector  of  the  popula- 
tion hard.  One  reason  for  the  rise  of  women  in  the  labor  force  was 
the  struggle  of  middle-class  families  to  maintain  their  standard  of 
living.  Moreover,  it  was  very  common  for  middle-class  Uruguayans 
to  have  two  (or  even  more)  jobs. 

For  much  of  the  twentieth  century,  Uruguay's  middle  classes 
benefited  from  the  provision  of  excellent  public  education  at  no 
cost  up  through  university.  Public  schools  began  to  decline  in  quality 
in  the  1970s,  however,  and  few  members  of  the  middle  class  could 
afford  the  requisite  fees  to  have  their  children  educated  privately. 
A  similar  pattern  of  deterioration  in  public  health  care  and  the  value 
of  state  pensions  occurred,  adding  to  the  difficulties  of  the  middle 
classes.  Public-sector  wages  were  severely  squeezed  under  military 
rule  (from  1973  to  1985),  as  were  private-sector  wages,  but  to  a 
slightly  lesser  degree.  A  major  factor  was  the  virtual  suspension 
of  wage  bargaining  under  a  climate  of  systematic  repression  of  labor 
unions.  Previously,  white-collar  unionization  had  been  high  (see 
The  Labor  Movement,  ch.  3). 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


The  middle  classes  were  typically  employed  as  civil  servants  or 
white-collar  workers.  Many  worked  in  small  businesses,  but  some 
of  these  businesses  were  hurt  by  the  market-oriented  economic  re- 
forms of  the  1970s,  which  led  to  the  liberalization  of  manufactured 
imports  (see  Restructuring  under  the  Military  Regime,  1973-85, 
ch.  3).  From  1978  until  1982,  the  middle  classes  benefited  from 
a  boom  in  imported  durable  consumer  goods,  such  as  automobiles, 
appliances,  and  electronics.  The  subsequent  economic  slump  left 
many  families  heavily  in  debt  and  unable  to  meet  their  obligations. 
Particularly  hard  hit  were  individuals  who  had  taken  out  mortgages 
denominated  in  dollars.  When  the  Uruguayan  new  peso  (for  value 
of  the  Uruguayan  new  peso — see  Glossary)  collapsed  in  1982,  many 
of  them  found  their  house  and  apartment  payments  had  tripled 
overnight.  A  similar  debt  crunch  hit  many  medium- sized  firms  that 
had  expanded  by  borrowing. 

The  Uruguayan  middle  classes  were  avid  joiners  of  interest 
groups  and  professional  associations.  Among  these  were  the  pro- 
fessional associations  of  lawyers,  civil  servants,  notaries,  accoun- 
tants, bankers,  and  physicians.  Some  white-collar  labor  unions, 
although  less  prestigious  than  the  professional  associations,  were 
home  to  the  middle  classes.  For  instance,  workers  in  health  care 
had  the  Federation  of  Uruguayan  Sanitation  Workers,  with  13,400 
members. 

High  school  teachers  (profesores)  were  organized  in  the  National 
Federation  of  Secondary  Teachers,  which  had  nearly  2,400  mem- 
bers. Grade  school  teachers  (maestros)  had  the  Uruguayan  Federation 
of  Elementary  Teachers,  with  nearly  7,100  members.  University 
professors  (docentes)  belonged  to  the  Association  of  Professors  of  the 
University  of  the  Republic,  which  had  2,000  affiliates.  The  Uru- 
guayan Association  of  Bank  Employees  (Asociacion  de  Empleados 
Bancarios  del  Uruguay — AEBU)  was  much  larger,  with  15,344 
members,  as  was  the  Confederation  of  State  Civil  Service  Organi- 
zations, with  25,508  members.  Many  of  these  associations  ran 
cooperative  stores  and  social  clubs.  For  example,  the  AEBU  had 
a  large  modern  headquarters  in  downtown  Montevideo  contain- 
ing meeting  rooms  and  a  theater. 

The  importance  of  education  to  the  middle  classes  was  under- 
lined by  the  widespread  use  of  professional  titles.  Lawyers  were 
formally  addressed  as  doctor,  accountants  as  contador,  engineers  as 
ingeniero,  and  so  forth.  However,  the  rapid  expansion  of  higher  edu- 
cation began  to  lead  to  graduate  unemployment  and  under- 
employment in  the  1960s,  a  further  source  of  strain  on  the  middle 
classes. 


73 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Small  Farmers  and  Rural  Workers 

Although  they  accounted  for  only  about  5  percent  of  Uruguay's 
total  land,  small  farms  were  common  in  the  littoral  and  the  south. 
Owners  of  medium-sized  farms  were  able  to  approximate  the  liv- 
ing standards  of  the  urban  middle  class,  but  for  tenant  farmers  and 
proprietors  of  smaller  areas,  life  was  a  constant  struggle.  Particu- 
larly poor  were  the  small  producers  of  Canelones  Department  who 
grew  vegetables  for  the  capital. 

Because  the  rural  economy  was  not  at  all  labor  intensive,  Uru- 
guay had  very  few  rural  workers.  One  exception  was  the  depart- 
ment of  Artigas,  where  large  sugarcane  plantations  had  grown  up. 
The  very  low  wages  of  the  cane  cutters  caused  them  to  form  a  union 
in  the  1960s  and  to  bring  their  protests  to  the  streets  of  the  capital. 
Apart  from  this,  however,  Uruguay's  few  rural  workers  and  small 
farmers  had  not  managed  to  form  organizations  to  defend  their 
economic  interests.  In  particular,  the  Ruralist  movement  of  the 
1950s  and  1960s,  which  began  as  a  protest  by  the  small  farmers 
against  government  taxes,  soon  fell  under  the  leadership  of  large 
landowners.  In  the  late  1980s,  a  rural  workers'  union  claimed  a 
membership  of  only  4,000  (see  The  Labor  Movement;  Land  Use 
and  Tenure,  ch.  3). 

Blue-Collar  Workers 

Uruguay  lacked  a  large  industrial  labor  force  by  the  standards 
of  the  developed  world.  Indeed,  urban  employment  was  dominated 
by  the  service  industries.  Only  23  percent  of  the  total  labor  force 
was  employed  in  industry  in  1988.  Skilled  manual  workers  neverthe- 
less had  tended  to  form  unions  quite  successfully  and  hence  main- 
tained a  relatively  comfortable  standard  of  living,  at  least  until  the 
military  takeover  in  1973.  Since  1985  they  have  fought  to  restore 
the  former  level  of  their  wages  in  real  terms,  but  statistics  suggest 
that  in  1990  these  were  still  lower  than  in  1980. 

Many  workers  made  only  the  official  minimum  wage,  which  fluc- 
tuated according  to  inflation,  the  exchange  rate,  and  government 
policy.  In  the  1980s,  it  was  under  the  equivalent  of  US$100  per 
month.  As  of  June  1990,  it  stood  at  US$76,  although  it  must  be 
remembered  that  the  cost  of  living  in  Uruguay  was  on  the  whole 
much  lower  than  in  the  United  States.  Overall,  the  economic  po- 
sition of  urban  blue-collar  workers  was  far  superior  to,  and  much 
more  stable  than,  that  of  workers  in  the  informal  sector,  which  was 
variously  defined  to  include  domestic  service,  street  vending  (par- 
ticularly of  contraband  goods  from  Brazil),  home-based  piecework, 
sewing,  laundering,  recycling,  begging,  and  even  prostitution  and 
crime. 


74 


Plowing  in  Los  Arenales,  Canelones  Department 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 


75 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

In  1964  Uruguay's  labor  unions  came  together  to  form  a  single 
federation  known  as  the  National  Convention  of  Workers  (Con- 
vencion  Nacional  de  Trabajadores — CNT).  In  1973  the  military 
declared  the  CNT  illegal;  labor  union  activity  virtually  ceased  dur- 
ing the  following  decade.  In  1983,  however,  a  new  labor  federa- 
tion, known  as  the  Interunion  Workers'  Assembly  (or  Plenum) 
(Plenario  Intersindical  de  Trabajadores — PIT),  was  formed.  The 
PIT  later  changed  its  name  to  PIT-CNT  to  emphasize  its  histor- 
ical links  to  the  pre- 19 73  labor  movement  (see  Political  Forces  and 
Interest  Groups,  ch.  4). 

About  1 5  percent  of  the  economically  active  population  was  em- 
ployed as  domestic  servants,  most  of  them  women.  In  terms  of  status 
and  income,  their  class  position  was  between  that  of  blue-collar 
workers  and  the  poor. 

The  Urban  Poor 

The  urban  poor  were  concentrated  among  the  unemployed,  those 
working  in  the  informal  sector  of  the  economy,  unskilled  laborers, 
and  retired  persons.  Official  unemployment  figures  for  Montevideo 
fluctuated  from  around  8  percent  to  15  percent  in  the  1980s.  Esti- 
mates of  the  proportion  of  the  labor  force  in  the  informal  sector 
were,  by  definition,  hard  to  find.  But  the  proportion  has  certainly 
been  rising  since  the  1960s.  At  the  height  of  the  building  boom 
of  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s,  about  6  percent  of  the  labor  force 
was  employed  in  construction,  a  highly  cyclical  (and  thus  unstable) 
source  of  jobs.  In  addition,  the  real  value  of  state  pensions  was 
severely  eroded  in  the  1960s  and  1970s,  leading  to  widespread  mis- 
ery among  the  elderly. 

Since  1985  the  level  of  unemployment  has  remained  below  10 
percent  in  Montevideo,  and  the  government  has  made  modest  ef- 
forts to  restore  some  of  the  erosion  in  the  real  value  of  pensions 
(see  The  Sanguinetti  Government,  ch.  3).  However,  the  informal 
sector  of  the  economy  has  continued  to  grow. 

Income  Distribution  and  Living  Standards 

Uruguay's  pattern  of  income  distribution  remained  the  most 
egalitarian  in  Latin  America,  although  it  apparentiy  worsened  under 
military  rule  from  1973  to  1985.  In  1976  the  poorest  fifth  of  Uru- 
guayan households  received  4.8  percent  of  total  household  income, 
the  top  10  percent  of  households  took  in  30. 1  percent  of  total  house- 
hold income,  and  the  top  20  percent  of  households  took  in  46.4 
percent  of  income.  Although  unequal,  this  pattern  was  closer  to 
that  of  the  developed  world  than  to  the  rest  of  Latin  America. 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Despite  erosion  of  the  minimum  wage,  the  net  impact  of  the 
recovery  of  real  wages  and  pensions  in  the  first  year  after  the  return 
to  democracy  in  March  1985  appears  to  have  slightly  improved 
the  distribution  of  incomes.  Both  in  Montevideo  and  elsewhere  in 
Uruguay,  the  highest  10  percent  of  households  were  reported  to 
take  in  just  under  30  percent  of  household  income  in  1986,  while 
the  lowest  20  percent  of  households  garnered  just  under  6  percent 
of  income  (see  table  5,  Appendix). 

During  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century,  living  standards 
in  Uruguay  approximated  those  of  the  developed  world.  Since  the 
1950s,  however,  economic  stagnation  and  even  decline  have  meant 
severe  falls  in  real  wages  (see  table  6,  Appendix).  This  process  be- 
came particularly  marked  starting  in  1 968 ,  the  year  in  which  the 
government  imposed  a  wage  and  price  freeze  and  abolished  the 
so-called  wage  councils,  in  which  government  representatives,  em- 
ployers, and  unions  negotiated  salaries.  (The  councils  were  revived 
in  1985.) 

Real  wages  grew  particularly  fast  from  1985  to  1987  (see  table  7, 
Appendix).  However,  this  was  less  true  in  the  public  sector,  where 
in  1989  they  remained  below  their  1980  level.  The  Colorado  govern- 
ment also  allowed  the  real  value  of  the  legal  minimum  wage  to  con- 
tinue to  fall  (see  table  8,  Appendix). 

Although  the  Colorado  government  made  only  cautious  attempts 
to  redistribute  income  to  the  most  needy,  the  revival  of  economic 
growth  helped  to  produce  some  improvement  in  various  indica- 
tors of  income  distribution.  The  wage  share  of  national  income  grew 
from  30.3  percent  to  31.4  percent  between  1985  and  1987,  while 
the  income  share  of  the  self-employed  grew  from  1 0  percent  to  12.7 
percent.  According  to  the  household  survey  of  the  General  Direc- 
torate of  Statistics  and  Census,  the  proportion  of  families  below 
the  poverty  line  in  Montevideo  fell  from  27  percent  in  1984  to  16 
percent  in  1987. 

Reliable  data  on  rural  wages  were  hard  to  collect.  Clearly,  they 
were  much  lower  than  in  interior  towns  or  Montevideo,  but  offi- 
cial statistics  suggested  that  they  did  not  fall  as  far  or  as  fast  as 
wages  in  the  rest  of  the  economy  in  the  1970s. 

Family  Life 

By  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  the  traditional  pat- 
tern of  patriarchy  was  breaking  down  in  Uruguay.  The  relative 
emancipation  of  women  put  Uruguay  far  ahead  of  the  rest  of  Latin 
America  in  terms  of  legal  rights  and  social  custom.  Civil  marriage 
became  legally  required  in  1885,  and  the  influence  of  the  church 
declined.  Divorce  on  the  grounds  of  cruelty  by  the  husband  was 


77 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

legalized  in  1907,  and  in  1912  women  were  given  the  right  to  file 
for  divorce  without  a  specific  cause.  Married  women  were  allowed 
to  maintain  separate  bank  accounts  as  early  as  1919.  Women  also 
were  provided  with  equal  access  to  educational  opportunities  at  all 
levels  early  in  the  twentieth  century,  and  they  began  to  enter  the 
professions  in  increasing  numbers.  In  1938  women  voted  for  the 
first  time  in  national  elections.  Nevertheless,  there  was  a  pater- 
nalistic flavor  to  many  of  the  reforms,  which  were  often  seen  as 
protecting  women  rather  than  guaranteeing  their  inalienable  rights. 

One  factor  that  made  it  easier  for  middle-class  women  to  go  out 
of  the  home  to  work  was  the  widespread  availability  of  domestic 
servants  willing  to  undertake  cooking,  cleaning,  and  taking  care 
of  children  for  comparatively  low  wages.  By  the  1960s,  one-quarter 
of  all  adult  women  worked.  This  proportion  continued  to  rise  stead- 
ily, reaching  over  45  percent  in  Montevideo  by  1985.  In  1975  one- 
fifth  of  all  households  were  headed  by  women.  Nuclear  families 
made  up  61.2  percent  of  all  households,  while  there  were  almost 
as  many  single-person  households  (14.6  percent)  as  traditional  ex- 
tended families  (17.6  percent).  The  average  number  of  persons  in 
each  household  was  3.4. 

The  small  size  of  Uruguayan  families  by  Latin  American  stan- 
dards was  related  to  the  widespread  practice  of  birth  control  and 
the  middle-class  aspiration  to  provide  the  best  possible  education 
for  children.  Families  tended  to  be  larger  in  rural  areas,  where  the 
birth  rate  was  much  higher.  In  rural  areas,  however,  there  was 
an  imbalance  in  the  sex  ratio  because  women  had  a  much  higher 
propensity  to  migrate  to  the  towns  in  search  of  work,  particularly 
as  domestic  servants.  Poor  families  in  rural  areas  were  often  un- 
stable; common-law  marriage  and  illegitimacy  were  widespread. 
Although  abortion  was  illegal,  there  was  no  legal  distinction  be- 
tween children  born  in  and  out  of  wedlock. 

In  rural  areas,  the  maintenance  of  symbolic  kinship  ties  remained 
common.  When  babies  were  baptized,  they  often  were  given  a  god- 
father (compadre)  chosen  from  among  the  members  of  the  local  elite. 
This  practice,  known  as  compadrazgo,  was  intended  to  provide  the 
children  with  useful  connections  in  later  life.  It  formed  an  impor- 
tant link  in  the  pattern  of  interaction  between  rural  elites  and  subor- 
dinate classes.  Reciprocal  obligations  ranged  from  help  from  the 
godparent  in  finding  employment  to  the  requirement  of  loyalty  in 
voting  on  the  part  of  the  godchild. 

Relations  between  husbands  and  wives  in  Uruguay  were  rela- 
tively equal  by  Latin  American  standards.  The  divorce  rate  had 
grown  steadily  from  1  per  10,000  population  in  1915  to  14  per  1,000 
in  1985.  In  1927  the  compulsory  civil  marriage  ceremony  was 


78 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


amended  so  that  the  bride  no  longer  promised  obedience,  but  both 
man  and  woman  vowed  to  treat  each  other  with  respect.  It  was 
not  uncommon  for  women  to  keep  their  surnames  after  marriage. 
Often,  they  simply  added  the  husband's  name  to  theirs.  Children 
had  their  father's  surname  followed  by  their  mother's. 

Uruguayan  children,  and  especially  girls,  had  a  relatively  high 
degree  of  freedom  compared  with  their  counterparts  in  many  other 
Latin  American  countries.  Chaperonage  was  rare.  It  was  expected 
that  women  would  have  careers,  and  by  1970  almost  half  the  total 
school  population  was  female. 

During  the  1960s,  the  phenomenon  known  as  the  "generation 
gap"  began  to  be  acutely  felt  in  Uruguay.  Young  people  rebelled 
against  their  parents  and  adopted  permissive  life-styles.  In  many 
cases,  they  were  drawn  into  radical  politics;  in  fact,  in  1990  youth 
was  still  one  of  the  strongest  predictors  of  left- voting  in  Uruguay. 

Family  ties  remained  strong  in  Uruguay  despite  the  rebellious- 
ness of  youth.  Children  frequently  lived  in  the  parental  home  well 
into  their  thirties,  in  some  cases  even  after  marriage.  The  usual 
reason  for  staying  at  home  was  economic  necessity;  many  couples 
found  affordable  housing  hard  to  come  by. 

Despite  the  relative  freedom  of  women,  attitudes  toward  gen- 
der roles  and  sexuality  remained  traditionally  stereotypical.  The 
pattern  of  machismo  was  less  pronounced  than  in  much  of  Latin 
America,  but  males  were  expected  to  show  "masculine"  traits; 
"feminine"  characteristics  were  seen  as  inferior.  At  social  gather- 
ings, women  tended  to  congregate  with  other  women,  and  men 
with  men. 

Upper-middle-class  Uruguayans  usually  tried  to  escape  Monte- 
video for  the  beach  resorts  on  weekends  and  during  the  long  De- 
cember to  January  summer  holidays.  Family  gatherings  typically 
centered  on  outdoor  barbecues  (asados),  in  which  large  quantities 
of  meat  were  consumed.  Another  typical  custom,  symbolic  of  fam- 
ily and  friendship  ties,  was  the  sharing  of  yerba  mate,  a  form  of 
green  tea.  A  hollo  wed-out  gourd  (the  mate)  or  sometimes  a  china 
cup  is  packed  almost  full  with  the  green  tea.  A  metal  straw  (bom- 
billa)  is  then  inserted  into  the  tea,  and  boiling  water  is  poured  on 
top.  The  mate  is  then  passed  around  in  a  circle,  each  person  add- 
ing a  little  more  hot  water.  This  custom  was  particularly  signifi- 
cant under  the  military  regime  of  1973  to  1985,  when  citizens  were 
often  afraid  to  congregate  in  public  squares  for  fear  their  gossip 
might  be  seen  as  political.  An  innocent  mate  ceremony  could  hardly 
arouse  suspicions. 

As  in  other  countries,  the  advent  of  television  has  reduced  movie 
and  theater  attendance  precipitously,  causing  more  leisure  hours 


79 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


to  be  spent  in  the  home.  Uruguayans  remained  enthusiastic  in  their 
participation  in  competitive  sports,  however.  Amateur  soccer  con- 
tinued to  thrive  among  the  middle  and  lower  classes,  whereas  the 
upper-middle  classes  preferred  tennis,  golf,  and  sailing.  For  the 
elite,  membership  in  a  country  club  was  an  important  focus  of 
leisure  activity  and  a  symbol  of  social  status. 

Health  and  Welfare 

Uruguay  has  been  described  as  South  America's  "first  welfare 
state"  as  a  result  of  its  pioneering  efforts  in  the  fields  of  public  edu- 
cation, health  care,  and  social  security.  The  steady  rise  in  public 
employment,  often  by  the  creation  of  jobs  that  fulfilled  no  particu- 
lar function,  served  to  keep  the  unemployment  level  down,  partic- 
ularly in  election  years.  However,  the  stagnation  of  the  economy 
starting  in  the  1950s  put  increasing  strains  on  this  system.  In  par- 
ticular, declining  tax  revenues  and  increased  spending  produced 
large  government  deficits  and  accelerating  rates  of  inflation.  For- 
eign advisers  began  to  recommend  severe  budget  cuts  as  the  only 
solution  to  the  chronic  fiscal  crisis. 

During  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  century,  Uruguay,  along 
with  Argentina,  led  Latin  America  in  its  advanced  standards  of 
medical  care.  Even  in  1990,  the  University  of  the  Republic's  medical 
school  had  a  high  international  reputation  and  continued  to  attract 
students  from  other  countries  in  South  America.  Starting  with  the 
progressive  reforms  of  the  early  part  of  the  twentieth  century,  the 
state  has  taken  a  leading  role  in  the  provision  of  health  care,  par- 
ticularly for  the  lower  classes.  Private  medicine  remained  the 
preferred  option  of  the  middle  and  upper  classes,  however.  Under 
military  rule  from  1973  to  1985,  standards  of  care  in  public  hos- 
pitals and  clinics  were  adversely  affected  by  budget  restrictions. 

By  the  1970s,  Uruguay's  welfare  state  had  declined  sharply  in 
the  standards  of  protection  that  it  afforded  to  the  mass  of  the  popu- 
lation. The  government  bureaucracy,  however,  continued  to  swell. 
Total  health  care  spending  in  1984  represented  8.1  percent  of  GDP, 
a  proportion  similar  to  that  of  the  developed  world.  In  the  same 
year,  about  7.5  percent  of  household  spending  went  to  health  care, 
but  400,000  Uruguayans  were  without  state  or  private  health  care 
coverage. 

Under  the  civilian  administration  inaugurated  in  1985,  progress 
was  made  in  redirecting  the  budget  away  from  spending  on  the 
military  and  toward  social  welfare.  Defense  spending  fell  from  13.0 
percent  of  government  outlays  in  1984  to  11.8  percent  in  1986. 
Over  the  same  period,  social  security  decreased  from  31.5  percent 
to  27.6  percent,  but  education  grew  from  7.4  percent  to  10. 1  percent 


80 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

and  sanitation  from  4.3  percent  to  6.7  percent  of  public  expendi- 
ture. 

In  1987  Montevideo  had  over  sixty  public  health  facilities,  in- 
cluding seven  major  public  hospitals.  About  half  the  interior  depart- 
ments had  their  own  hospital;  the  rest  had  only  a  centro  auxiliar 
(auxiliary  center).  Altogether,  Uruguay's  public  health  system  had 
about  9,505  hospital  rooms  available. 

In  1985  the  number  of  inhabitants  per  physician  was  466,  about 
the  same  rate  as  in  the  developed  world.  However,  the  distribu- 
tion of  health  care  services  was  highly  skewed.  Outside  Montevideo 
the  ratio  was  a  much  less  favorable  1,234  citizens  per  physician; 
by  contrast,  there  were  only  262  inhabitants  of  Montevideo  for  every 
doctor. 

Infant  Mortality  and  Life  Expectancy 

The  infant  mortality  rate  was  48.6  per  1,000  live  births  in  1975. 
In  the  first  half  of  the  1980s,  it  fell  to  37.6  per  1,000— low  by  Latin 
American  standards  but  still  almost  twice  the  rate  of  Chile  and  Costa 
Rica.  In  the  second  half  of  the  decade,  however,  infant  mortality 
began  to  decline  to  levels  close  to  those  of  the  latter  two  countries: 
in  1986  it  was  27.7;  in  1987,  23.8;  in  1988,  20.3;  and  in  1990, 
22.  The  increasing  share  of  government  spending  devoted  to  in- 
fant health  care  and  nutrition  programs  appeared  to  have  been  one 
reason  for  this  sharp  improvement. 

The  average  life  expectancy  at  birth  in  1990  was  seventy  years 
for  men  and  seventy-six  years  for  women,  only  slightly  behind 
Chile,  Costa  Rica,  and  Argentina.  The  mortality  rate  remained 
just  below  10  per  1,000  population  in  the  1980s.  The  leading  causes 
of  death  in  1985  included  circulatory  disease  (40.2  percent),  tumors 
(22.6  percent),  trauma  (4.1  percent),  respiratory  disorders  and  in- 
fections (3.8  percent),  perinatal  complications  (2.4  percent),  in- 
fectious diseases  and  parasites  (2.4  percent),  suicide  (1 .0  percent), 
and  cirrhosis  of  the  liver  (0.9  percent). 

In  the  late  1980s,  Uruguay  did  not  remain  exempt  from  the 
worldwide  epidemics  of  acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS)  and  drug  addiction  among  youth.  Although  the  total  num- 
ber of  cases  of  AIDS  has  not  reached  the  numbers  recorded  in  the 
United  States,  Europe,  or  Brazil,  AIDS  has  become  a  greater  con- 
cern. According  to  the  Ministry  of  Public  Health,  by  the  end  of 
June  1990  there  had  been  129  cases  of  AIDS  in  Uruguay  since  1983, 
when  it  was  first  detected.  Of  those  cases,  100  were  from  Monte- 
video and  29  from  the  rest  of  the  country.  Fifty-nine  of  the  cases 
were  contracted  inside  Uruguay,  whereas  seventy  of  the  victims 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


caught  the  virus  outside  the  country.  One  hundred  and  seventeen 
of  the  cases  were  men;  twelve  were  women.  An  additional  627  in- 
dividuals were  found  to  be  carrying  the  virus,  without  having  yet 
shown  symptoms  of  the  disease.  In  the  1983-89  period,  sixty-five 
people  were  known  to  have  died  of  complications  resulting  from 
the  human  immunodeficiency  virus  (HIV). 

In  1990  Uruguay  still  enjoyed  the  image  of  a  "clean"  country 
insofar  as  drugs  were  concerned.  In  response  to  some  significant 
negative  signs,  however,  the  government  formed  the  National  Board 
for  the  Control  of  Drug  Trafficking  and  Narcotics  Abuse  in  Janu- 
ary 1988.  The  board  included  representatives  from  the  office  of 
the  president  and  the  ministries  of  public  health,  education  and 
culture,  and  interior.  It  found  that  drug  addiction  grew  continu- 
ously in  Uruguay  in  1988.  The  number  of  adult  drug  addicts  had 
more  than  doubled  from  321  in  1983  to  697  in  1987;  the  number 
of  children  addicted  to  drugs  had  quintupled  from  62  in  1983  to 
292  in  1987.  According  to  the  Ministry  of  Public  Health,  the  drug 
consumer  was  predominantly  single,  with  good  family  relations, 
and  the  majority  had  attended  secondary  school;  half  of  the  total 
were  employed.  The  most  commonly  abused  drug  was  marijuana, 
followed  by  amphetamines  and  industrial-use  inhalants;  cocaine 
and  lysergic  acid  diethylamide  (LSD)  were  also  included  on  the 
list,  but  to  a  lesser  extent. 

State  and  Private  Health  Care 

In  1971  about  82  percent  of  hospital  beds  were  provided  in  es- 
tablishments run  by  the  Ministry  of  Public  Health.  The  same  public 
hospitals  accounted  for  69.5  percent  of  hospitalizations.  About  61 
percent  of  visits  to  general  practitioners  were  covered  by  private 
health  plans  known  as  mutuales  (mutuals).  In  the  same  year,  58.9 
percent  of  the  inhabitants  of  Montevideo  were  covered  by  these 
private  associations.  About  11.8  percent  had  the  official  health  card 
of  the  Ministry  of  Public  Health,  entitiing  them  to  free  health  care. 
A  further  6.8  percent  had  other  health  plans,  usually  through  their 
place  of  work.  This  left  5.8  percent  with  multiple  forms  of  cover- 
age and  16.6  percent  with  no  coverage  at  all. 

In  1980  there  were  9,089  public  hospital  beds,  about  three-fifths 
in  the  capital  and  the  remainder  in  the  rest  of  the  country.  During 
the  period  of  military  rule  from  1973  to  1985,  the  government  had 
shifted  health  care  spending  toward  military  hospitals,  which  were, 
however,  open  only  to  relatives  of  the  members  of  the  armed  forces. 
After  1985  the  government  made  a  sustained  effort  to  increase  health 
care  coverage.  From  1985  to  1988,  public  health  cardholders 


83 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

increased  from  566,000  to  692,000  in  the  interior  but  decreased 
slightly  from  323,000  to  310,000  in  Montevideo. 

At  the  end  of  1984,  there  were  918,000  members  of  private  health 
plans  in  Montevideo  and  325,000  in  the  rest  of  the  country.  By 
1988  the  numbers  had  risen  to  963,000  and  488,000,  respectively. 
Overall,  this  represented  a  17  percent  increase  in  the  membership 
of  the  mutuales  from  1984  to  1988.  As  with  the  state  health  provi- 
sion, the  greatest  increase  in  coverage  occurred  in  the  interior,  where 
it  was  most  needed. 

A  concurrent  effort  was  made  to  increase  the  proportion  of  in- 
fants receiving  inoculations.  In  1985  there  were  503  cases  of  whoop- 
ing cough,  and  in  1986  there  were  1,117;  but  in  the  first  nine  months 
of  1988,  there  were  only  21.  Over  the  same  period,  the  number 
of  cases  of  measles  first  rose  from  160  in  1985  to  1,190  in  1987 
but  then  fell  sharply  to  just  73  in  the  first  nine  months  of  1988. 
The  proportion  of  infants  immunized  before  age  one  rose  from  61 
to  79  percent  in  1985  to  80  to  88  percent  in  1987,  depending  on 
the  particular  vaccination. 

Government  investment  in  health  care  equipment  rose  dra- 
matically after  the  return  to  democracy,  climbing  from  US$564,000 
in  1985  to  US$2.2  million  in  1987.  Over  the  same  period,  ex- 
penditures on  construction  of  health  care  facilities  rose  from 
US$772,000  to  US$2.7  million.  Total  spending  by  the  Ministry 
of  Public  Health  rose  34  percent  in  real  terms,  while  spending  on 
medications  doubled.  Grandiose  plans  for  new  hospitals  to  be 
financed  by  foreign  development  loans  were  announced  in  1989, 
but  their  realization  remained  a  distant  prospect. 

Social  Security  Pensions 

Uruguay  pioneered  social  security  pension  programs,  starting 
as  early  as  1896  with  a  fund  for  teachers.  The  plans  were  subse- 
quently extended  piecemeal  to  different  sectors  of  the  labor  force 
and  soon  grew  extremely  complex  and  bureaucratic.  A  system  of 
family  allowances  (based  on  the  number  of  dependent  children) 
was  introduced  in  1943  and  consolidated  in  1950.  Unfortunately, 
the  provision  of  welfare  benefits  became  politicized  as  politicians 
from  rival  parties  would  intercede  on  behalf  of  voters  to  speed  up 
the  endless  delays. 

Ultimately,  the  system  of  benefits  began  to  be  abused  by  poli- 
ticians in  order  to  "buy"  votes.  The  most  notorious  example  was 
the  case  of  the  seamstresses:  far  more  pensions  were  handed  out 
to  alleged  garment  workers  than  there  were  garment  workers.  Criti- 
cism of  the  various  programs  became  vociferous  by  the  1960s,  and 
the  programs  were  reorganized  in  the  single  Social  Welfare  Bank 


84 


Delivering  milk  in  Treinta  y  Tres 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 

under  the  1967  constitution.  During  the  military  regime  of  1973-85, 
further  efforts  at  rationalization  were  undertaken,  including  the 
consolidation  of  most  funds  under  the  General  Directorate  of  Social 
Security  (Direction  General  de  Seguridad  Social — DGSS).  The 
number  of  claimants  continued  to  rise  rapidly,  however,  reaching 
629,077  in  July  1984. 

Social  security  transfers  were  not  all  paid  out  in  the  form  of  pen- 
sions, although  in  1983  these  accounted  for  78.3  percent  of  total 
oudays.  Other  categories  included  family  allowances  for  households 
with  young  children  (6.4  percent  in  1983)  and  benefits  for  sick- 
ness (4.8  percent)  and  for  unemployment  (3.0  percent).  However, 
these  had  suffered  similar  declines.  In  1983  the  total  outlays  of  the 
DGSS  were  financed  as  follows:  employers'  contributions,  28.1  per- 
cent; workers'  contributions,  28.1  percent;  and  state  contributions, 
43.8  percent. 

Uruguay's  population  has  continued  to  age  since  1963,  as  the 
censuses  of  1963,  1975,  and  1985  show.  In  1985  the  average  age 
of  the  population  was  30.3  years.  The  percentage  of  the  popula- 
tion over  age  sixty  rose  from  11.6  in  1963,  to  14.3  in  1975,  and 
to  15.7  in  1985.  Those  over  age  sixty-five  accounted  for  7.6  per- 
cent, 9.8  percent,  and  11.1  percent,  respectively,  in  the  same  years. 
This  long-term  aging  trend,  similar  to  that  of  developed  countries, 


85 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

worried  social  planners  because  of  the  projected  strain  on  social 
security  programs.  It  was  compounded  by  the  high  life  expectancy 
of  Uruguayans  after  retirement:  ten  years  for  men  and  twenty-one 
years  for  women. 

The  population's  aging  trend  also  made  the  impact  of  the  decline 
in  the  real  value  of  pensions  even  more  serious  because  it  affected 
an  increasingly  large  share  of  the  population.  However,  with  the 
return  to  democracy  in  1985,  efforts  were  made  by  the  Colorado 
administration  of  Julio  Maria  Sanguinetti  Cairolo  (1985-90)  to 
restore  some  of  their  real  value.  Although  the  opposition  parties 
severely  criticized  the  Colorados  for  not  increasing  social  security 
payments  faster,  these  at  least  grew  20  percent  from  1984  to  1987 
in  real  terms.  The  greatest  increases  were  awarded  to  those  receiving 
the  smallest  pensions. 

Education 

Uruguay  had  the  highest  literacy  rate  in  Latin  America,  at  96 
percent  in  1985.  There  was  no  appreciable  difference  in  literacy  rates 
between  males  and  females,  but  there  were  discrepancies  between 
urban  and  rural  rates  (rural  rates  being  demonstrably  lower).  Uru- 
guay's system  of  universal,  free,  and  secular  education  required  a 
total  of  nine  years  of  compulsory  school  attendance,  from  ages  six 
to  fourteen.  The  proportion  of  children  of  primary  school  age  en- 
rolled in  school  had  long  been  virtually  100  percent.  Furthermore, 
from  1965  to  1985  the  proportion  of  children  of  secondary  school 
age  enrolled  in  some  form  of  secondary  school  grew  from  44  to  70 
percent,  also  the  highest  rate  in  Latin  America.  The  postsecondary 
education  enrollment  rate  was  about  20  percent.  Coeducation  was 
the  norm,  and  females  and  males  attended  school  in  near-equal  num- 
bers at  all  levels.  As  is  typical  of  any  country,  however,  rates  of 
schooling  were  higher  in  urban  areas  than  in  rural  areas. 

The  quality  of  education  in  Uruguay  was  rated  as  high.  Teach- 
ing was  a  socially  respected  profession  and  one  that  paid  relatively 
well.  Most  teachers,  trained  in  teachers'  training  colleges,  were 
deemed  well  qualified.  The  main  problem  confronting  the  edu- 
cation system  was  the  inadequacy  of  facilities,  instructional  mate- 
rials, and  teachers'  aides.  Rural  areas  often  suffered  from  woefully 
insufficient  facilities  and  supplies.  Urban  schools  often  were 
seriously  overcrowded  and  were  forced  to  resort  to  holding  classes 
in  multiple  shifts.  In  addition,  drop-out  and  repetition  rates,  although 
moderate  by  Latin  American  standards,  were  still  considered  high. 

The  Education  System 

Primary  education  in  Uruguay  was  free  and  compulsory;  it  en- 
compassed six  years  of  instruction.  The  number  of  primary  schools 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


in  1987  was  2,382,  including  240  private  schools.  There  were  16,568 
primary  school  teachers  and  354,177  primary  school  students.  This 
resulted  in  a  pupil-teacher  ratio  of  approximately  twenty-one  to 
one  in  1987,  compared  with  about  thirty  to  one  in  1970.  Boys  and 
girls  were  enrolled  in  almost  equal  numbers. 

General  education  in  secondary  schools  encompassed  six  years 
of  instruction  divided  into  two  three-year  cycles.  The  first,  or  basic, 
cycle  was  compulsory;  the  second  cycle  was  geared  to  university 
preparation.  In  addition  to  the  academic  track,  public  technical 
education  schools  provided  secondary  school  education  that  was 
technical  and  vocational  in  nature.  The  two  systems  were  parallel 
in  structure,  and  there  was  little  provision  for  transfer  between  the 
two.  All  sectors  of  society  traditionally  tended  to  prefer  the  aca- 
demic course  of  study,  which  was  regarded  as  more  prestigious. 
As  a  result,  academic  secondary  education  had  expanded  more 
rapidly  than  technical  education  in  the  second  half  of  the  twen- 
tieth century.  In  1987  there  were  276  general  secondary  schools 
in  Uruguay,  including  118  private  schools.  However,  the  public 
high  schools  were  much  larger,  so  that  in  1987  they  actually  con- 
tained 145,083  of  the  country's  175,710  secondary  school  students 
enrolled  in  both  day  classes  and  night  classes.  In  addition,  ninety- 
four  technical  education  schools  had  a  total  enrollment  of  52,766 
students  in  1987.  Male  and  female  enrollment  at  the  secondary 
level  was  roughly  equal,  but  females  slighdy  outnumbered  males 
overall  (constituting,  for  example,  53  percent  of  the  secondary  school 
student  body  in  1982).  It  appeared  that  females  were  in  the  majority 
in  the  basic  cycle  but  were  very  slightly  outnumbered  by  males  in 
the  university  preparatory  cycle. 

Uruguay  had  only  one  public  university,  the  University  of  the 
Republic  (also  known  as  the  University  of  Montevideo),  founded 
in  1849,  and  only  one  private  university,  the  Catholic  University 
of  Uruguay,  established  in  1984  and  also  in  Montevideo.  Educa- 
tion at  the  University  of  the  Republic  was  free  and,  in  general, 
open  to  all  those  possessing  a  bachillerato,  or  certificate  awarded  for 
completion  of  both  cycles  of  general  secondary  education.  Despite 
the  free  tuition,  however,  access  to  a  university  education  tended 
to  be  limited  to  children  of  middle-  and  upper-income  families  be- 
cause the  need  to  supplement  the  family  income  by  working,  cou- 
pled with  the  expense  of  books  and  other  fees,  placed  a  university 
education  out  of  the  reach  of  many.  Moreover,  the  fact  that  the 
only  public  university  was  in  Montevideo  severely  limited  the  ability 
of  those  in  the  interior  to  attend  university  unless  their  families 
were  relatively  well  off  financially.  In  1988  about  69  percent  of 
university  students  were  from  Montevideo. 


87 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

The  number  of  university  students  continued  to  grow  rapidly, 
from  nearly  22,000  in  1970  to  over  61,000  in  1988.  Of  that  total, 
women  accounted  for  about  58  percent.  Most  courses  of  study  were 
intended  to  last  from  four  to  six  years,  but  the  average  time  spent 
at  university  by  a  successful  student  was  usually  considerably  longer. 
As  in  the  rest  of  Latin  America,  maintaining  the  status  of  student 
had  various  advantages,  such  as  reduced  fares  on  buses  and  subsi- 
dized canteens.  This  was  one  reason  that  the  student  population 
was  so  large  yet  the  number  of  graduates  relatively  low.  In  1986 
only  3,654  students  (2,188  women  and  1,455  men)  graduated  from 
university,  whereas  16,878  entered  that  year.  Uruguayans  exhibited 
a  strong  preference  for  the  disciplines  and  professions  they  deemed 
prestigious,  such  as  law,  social  science,  engineering,  medicine,  eco- 
nomics, and  administration. 

Observers  continued  to  note  the  discrepancy  between  univer- 
sity training  and  job  opportunities,  particularly  in  the  prestigious 
fields.  This  gap  contributed  to  the  substantial  level  of  emigration 
of  the  best-educated  young  Uruguayan  professionals  (see  Emigra- 
tion, this  ch.). 

Historical  Origins  and  Evolution  of  Education 

Uruguay  pioneered  universal,  free,  and  compulsory  primary  edu- 
cation in  the  Americas  under  the  influence  of  Jose  Pedro  Varela 
(president,  1875-76),  whose  writings  convinced  the  government 
to  pass  the  1877  Law  of  Common  Education.  The  model  adopted 
for  public  schools  was  taken  from  the  French  system,  and  a  cen- 
tralized, nationwide  system  was  established.  A  rigid  separation  into 
three  branches  of  education  grew  up — primary,  secondary,  and 
university.  Teacher  training  for  grade  school  teachers  was  connected 
to  the  primary  school  system.  The  National  Institute  of  Technical 
Education  (Instituto  Nacional  de  Educacion  Tecnica — INET)  grew 
up  as  an  extension  of  the  secondary  school  system.  By  the  late  1950s, 
all  three  branches  of  the  education  system  had  established  adminis- 
trative autonomy,  including  complete  control  over  their  budgets. 
The  Organic  University  Law  of  1958  provided  that  the  governing 
bodies  of  the  University  of  the  Republic  would  be  elected  by  the 
members  of  the  faculty,  alumni,  and  students. 

By  the  late  1960s,  Uruguayan  secondary  schools  and  the  vari- 
ous faculties  of  the  University  of  the  Republic  had  become  extremely 
politicized.  Student  sit-ins,  demonstrations,  and  even  riots  were 
commonplace.  Classes  and  examinations  were  frequently  disrupted. 
After  1973  the  authorities  vowed  to  put  an  end  to  this  situation, 
and  political  purges  in  the  education  system  became  widespread. 
Some  teachers  were  able  to  find  work  in  private  schools,  but  others 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


either  left  the  profession  or  emigrated.  Entire  branches  of  the  univer- 
sity, such  as  the  Institute  of  Social  Sciences,  were  closed  for  a  time. 
Academic  standards  suffered  across  the  board  as  some  of  the  best 
teachers  and  professors  were  fired  and  replaced  by  people  with  only 
mediocre  qualifications. 

Educational  Reforms  under  Military  Rule,  1973-85 

In  1973,  the  year  in  which  Uruguay  descended  into  authoritarian 
rule,  major  changes  were  decreed  in  the  education  system.  The 
National  Council  for  Education  (Consejo  Nacional  de  Education — 
Conae)  was  set  up  to  oversee  all  three  branches  of  education  under 
the  supervision  of  the  executive  branch  of  government.  At  the  same 
time,  the  compulsory  length  of  schooling  was  raised  from  six  to 
nine  years.  The  secondary  curriculum  was  completely  reorganized, 
as  was  the  pattern  of  teacher  training.  Finally,  the  INET  saw  its 
status  and  budget  upgraded.  However,  overall  spending  on  edu- 
cation fell  from  12.2  percent  of  the  central  government  budget  in 
1974  to  7.3  percent  in  1982. 

Enrollments  in  primary  education  (both  state  and  private)  fell 
6  percent  from  1968  to  1981.  From  1968  to  1982,  secondary  school 
enrollments  grew  6  percent;  however,  about  half  the  secondary 
school  students  in  Montevideo  (and  70  percent  in  the  interior) 
dropped  out  before  receiving  any  certification.  Over  the  same  pe- 
riod, there  was  a  boom  in  technical  schools;  enrollments  increased 
66  percent  in  the  interior  and  27  percent  in  Montevideo.  The  major 
cause  of  this  increase  was  the  new  ciclo  bdsico  (basic  cycle),  which 
added  three  years  of  compulsory  secondary  education  to  the  six 
years  of  compulsory  primary  schooling.  However,  the  drop-out  rate 
remained  about  50  percent.  Enrollments  in  the  University  of  the 
Republic  doubled  from  1968  to  1982,  but  the  proportion  of  stu- 
dents graduating  fell  to  just  8  percent. 

In  1984,  as  something  of  a  parting  shot,  Uruguay's  military 
government  formally  granted  university  status  to  a  Catholic  col- 
lege that  had  been  expanding  over  the  previous  decade.  This  ended 
the  University  of  the  Republic's  monopoly,  which  had  lasted  since 
its  foundation  in  1849.  The  new  Catholic  University  of  Uruguay 
remained  extremely  small,  however,  compared  with  its  rival. 

Education  under  the  Colorados,  1985-88 

Shortly  after  entering  office  in  March  1985,  Sanguinetti  passed 
a  decree  aimed  at  restoring  greater  autonomy  to  the  education  sys- 
tem. Conae  was  replaced  by  the  National  Administration  of  Pub- 
lic Education,  which  oversaw  three  decentralized  councils — one  for 
primary,  one  for  secondary,  and  one  for  technical  education.  Full 


89 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


autonomy  was  restored  to  the  University  of  the  Republic.  Whereas 
total  spending  on  education  represented  7.4  percent  of  the  national 
budget  in  1984,  by  1987  this  had  risen  to  10.9  percent,  equivalent 
to  US$175  million. 

From  1985  to  1988,  the  government  agreed  to  rehire  all  teachers 
and  professors  who  had  lost  their  jobs  during  the  political  purges 
after  1973  (3,241  accepted  the  offer  of  returning  to  their  old  jobs, 
but  1,520  took  retirement  instead).  In  many  cases,  the  rehiring 
of  former  teachers  led  to  unnecessary  numbers  of  staff,  as  the 
government  undertook  not  to  fire  any  of  the  replacement  teachers 
that  had  been  taken  on  under  the  military,  although  in  some  cases 
they  lacked  qualifications. 

Clashes  between  the  education  authorities  and  the  government 
were  common  after  1985,  given  the  existence  of  a  relatively  con- 
servative government  and  far  more  liberal  teachers.  Nevertheless, 
an  element  of  balance  between  centralized  control  and  decentral- 
ized initiative  was  successfully  restored.  Relations  between  the 
government  and  the  University  of  the  Republic  were  surprisingly 
smooth,  and  the  latter' s  share  of  the  national  budget  grew  from 
2.5  percent  in  1984  to  4.3  percent  (US$59  million)  in  1988. 

During  the  period  of  military  rule,  another  phenomenon  began 
to  emerge — the  establishment  of  private  research  institutes.  These 
relied  entirely  on  funds  from  foreign  development  foundations,  such 
as  the  Inter- American  Foundation  (a  United  States  agency),  the 
International  Development  Agency  (a  Canadian  agency),  and  vari- 
ous West  European  equivalents  (see  Political  Forces  and  Interest 
Groups,  ch.  4).  The  new  institutes  were  comparatively  small,  usu- 
ally only  hiring  a  dozen  or  so  full-time  staff,  but  they  constituted 
an  important  haven  for  academics  who  had  lost  their  jobs  for  po- 
litical reasons.  Without  these  private  centers,  even  more  academics 
would  have  been  forced  into  exile. 

Among  the  new  private  research  centers  was  the  Latin  Ameri- 
can Center  of  Human  Economy  (Centro  Latinoamericano  de 
Economia  Humana — CLAEH).  By  far  the  largest  of  the  centers, 
the  CLAEH  was  closely  linked  to  the  Christian  Democrats.  Apart 
from  carrying  out  a  broad  range  of  sociological  and  economic 
research,  it  also  conducted  courses  for  university-level  students  and 
published  what  was  for  a  time  Uruguay's  only  social  science  jour- 
nal. Somewhat  more  to  the  left  was  the  Economic  Research  Center 
(Centro  de  Investigaciones  Economicas — CINVE),  which  special- 
ized in  research  on  the  economy,  particularly  that  of  the  rural  sec- 
tor and  the  impact  of  the  economic  liberalization  pursued  under 
the  military.  Two  other  institutes  with  a  more  sociological  agenda 
of  research  were  the  Center  of  Information  and  Studies  of  Uruguay 


90 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


(Centro  de  Informaciones  y  Estudios  del  Uruguay — CIESU)  and 
the  Interdisciplinary  Center  of  Development  Studies,  Uruguay 
(Centro  Interdisciplinario  de  Estudios  del  Desarrollo,  Uruguay — 
CIEDUR). 

With  the  return  to  democracy  in  1985,  many  of  these  centers 
found  it  hard  to  continue  to  win  foreign  grants  to  undertake  their 
research,  and  most  of  their  personnel  attempted  to  return  to  their 
former  jobs  in  higher  education.  Where  possible,  however,  the 
teachers  tried  to  retain  both  positions. 

Religion 

Roman  Catholicism  was  the  dominant  religion  in  Uruguay,  but 
Uruguay  had  long  been  a  secular  society.  In  1981  the  nation  was 
divided  into  221  parishes  and  had  204  diocesan  priests.  In  addi- 
tion, there  were  374  monks  and  1,580  nuns.  About  three-quarters 
of  all  babies  were  baptized  in  the  church.  In  the  1963  census,  62 
percent  of  Uruguayans  had  declared  themselves  Catholics. 
However,  according  to  data  compiled  by  the  Uruguayan  Bishops 
Conference  in  1978,  only  105,248  citizens  regularly  attended  mass. 
This  figure  represented  less  than  4  percent  of  the  population.  At- 
tendance at  mass  was,  however,  slightly  higher  in  the  interior  of 
the  country  and  substantially  higher  among  women.  There  was 
also  evidence  that  religious  observance  was  higher  among  the  upper 
classes  than  among  the  middle  and  lower  strata  of  society.  In  the 
late  1980s,  an  estimated  66  percent  of  Uruguayans  were  professed 
Roman  Catholics,  but  less  than  half  of  the  adult  population  attended 
church  regularly. 

Uruguay's  secularization  began  with  the  relatively  minor  role 
of  the  church  in  the  colonial  era,  compared  with  other  parts  of  the 
Spanish  Empire.  The  small  numbers  of  Uruguay's  Indians,  and 
their  fierce  resistance  to  proselytization,  reduced  the  influence  of 
the  ecclesiastical  authorities.  After  independence,  anticlerical  ideas 
spread  to  Uruguay,  particularly  from  France,  further  eroding  the 
influence  of  the  church.  In  1837  civil  marriage  was  recognized, 
and  in  1861  the  state  took  over  public  cemeteries.  In  1907  divorce 
was  legalized,  and  in  1909  all  religious  instruction  was  banned  from 
state  schools.  Under  the  influence  of  the  radical  Colorado  reformer 
Jose  Batlle  y  Ordonez  (1903-07,  1911-15),  complete  separation 
of  church  and  state  was  introduced  with  the  new  constitution  of 
1917.  Batlle  y  Ordonez  went  as  far  as  to  have  religious  holidays 
legally  renamed.  Even  as  of  1990,  Uruguayans  referred  to  Holy 
Week  as  "Tourism  Week." 

Nevertheless,  the  separation  of  church  and  state  ended  religious 
conflict  in  Uruguay,  and  since  that  time  Catholic  schools  have  been 


91 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

allowed  to  flourish.  A  Catholic  party,  the  Civic  Union  of  Uruguay 
(Union  Civica  del  Uruguay — UCU),  was  founded  in  1912  but 
never  won  more  than  a  low  percentage  of  the  national  vote.  By 
the  1960s,  the  progressive  trend  in  the  worldwide  church  was  strong- 
ly felt  in  Uruguay  under  the  influence  of  Pope  John  XXIII  and 
Pope  Paul  VI.  Particularly  influential  was  the  1968  Latin  Ameri- 
can Bishops  Conference  in  Medellin,  Colombia,  at  which  the  con- 
cept of  "  structural  sin"  was  put  forward.  By  this  doctrine,  evil  was 
seen  as  existing  not  only  in  the  actions  of  individuals  but  also  in 
the  unequal  organization  of  entire  societies.  The  second  Latin 
American  Bishops  Conference,  held  in  Mexico  in  1979,  also  had 
an  important  dynamizing  and  radicalizing  impact  in  Uruguay.  This 
time,  the  bishops  called  for  a  "preferential  option  for  the  poor." 
Sections  of  the  Uruguayan  church  in  fact  became  quite  radical: 
when  members  of  the  National  Liberation  Movement-Tupamaros 
(Movimiento  de  Liberation  Nacional-Tupamaros — MLN-T)  were 
given  amnesty  in  1985,  for  a  time  they  were  housed  in  a  Monte- 
video monastery  while  they  readjusted  to  normal  life. 

One  symptom  of  the  growing  progressive  trend  in  the  Uruguayan 
Catholic  movement  was  the  decision  of  the  UCU  to  adopt  the  name 
Christian  Democratic  Party  (Partido  Democrata  Cristiano — PDC) 
in  1962.  The  new-found  social  conscience  was  strongly  influenced 
by  French  Catholic  philosophers — first  Jacques  Maritain  and  later 
Father  Lebret.  During  the  1960s,  the  PDC  moved  further  and  fur- 
ther left,  eventually  espousing  a  form  of  "communitarian  social- 
ism" under  its  brilliant  young  leader,  Juan  Pablo  Terra.  In  1971 
the  PDC  allied  with  the  Communist  Party  of  Uruguay  and  the  So- 
cialist Party  of  Uruguay  to  form  the  so-called  Broad  Front  alliance. 
That  caused  conservative  Catholics  to  form  the  Civic  Union  (Union 
Civica — UC)  to  offer  religious  voters  a  nonradical  alternative,  but 
the  UC  scarcely  achieved  any  influence  (see  Political  Parties,  ch.  4). 

During  the  twentieth  century,  Protestant  sects  began  to  grow  in 
importance.  Estimates  put  the  Protestant  proportion  of  the  popula- 
tion at  2  percent  or  a  little  higher  in  the  late  1980s.  From  1960  to 
1985,  the  number  of  Protestants  is  estimated  to  have  increased  by 
60  percent.  Over  the  same  period,  the  number  of  Protestants  grew 
500  percent  or  more  in  many  Latin  American  countries.  Uruguay 
was  thus  considered  a  "disappointment"  by  evangelical  crusaders. 

Jews  constituted  a  small  proportion  of  the  population  (about  2 
percent),  with  most  living  in  Montevideo.  The  size  of  the  Jewish 
community  had  dwindled  since  1970,  primarily  because  of 
emigration. 

*     *  * 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Very  little  has  been  published  in  English  on  Uruguayan  society 
in  recent  years.  Simon  Gabriel  Hanson's  Utopia  in  Uruguay,  pub- 
lished in  1938,  provides  a  detailed  history  of  social  and  economic 
reforms  in  the  first  three  decades  of  the  twentieth  century.  Russell 
H.  Fitzgibbon's  Uruguay:  Portrait  of  a  Democracy  paints  a  rosy  pic- 
ture of  Uruguay  in  the  golden  years  of  prosperity  and  social  peace 
prior  to  the  mid-1950s.  George  Pendle's  Uruguay:  South  America's 
First  Welfare  State  examines  this  period  more  concisely.  English- 
language  works  discussing  the  crisis  of  Uruguay's  welfare  state  in 
the  1960s  include  Marvin  Alisky's  Uruguay:  A  Contemporary  Survey 
and  M.H.J.  Finch's  more  detailed  and  scholarly  A  Political  Econ- 
omy of  Uruguay  since  1870.  Martin  Weinstein's  1975  book  on  the 
rise  of  authoritarianism,  Uruguay:  The  Politics  of  Failure,  and  his  more 
recent  volume  on  the  return  to  democracy,  Uruguay:  Democracy  at 
the  Crossroads,  provide  ample  information  on  the  social  situation. 

Many  of  the  most  useful  recent  sources  are  journal  articles  or 
chapters  in  edited  volumes.  Arturo  C.  Porzecanski  contributed  a 
chapter  on  the  problems  of  the  Uruguayan  welfare  state  to  Carmelo 
Mesa-Lago's  Social  Security  in  Latin  America.  Lauren  Benton  discusses 
the  evolution  of  housing  and  planning  in  Montevideo  under  mili- 
tary rule  in  "Reshaping  the  Urban  Core."  Alejandro  Portes,  Silvia 
Blitzer,  and  John  Curtis  examine  the  growth  of  the  informal  econ- 
omy in  Montevideo  households  in  "The  Urban  Informal  Sector 
in  Uruguay."  Graciela  Taglioretti  traces  the  increasing  participa- 
tion rate  of  women  in  the  labor  force  in  Women  and  Work  in  Uru- 
guay. Among  many  important  works,  distinguished  Uruguayan 
sociologist  Aldo  Solari  and  young  colleague  Rolando  Franco  have 
published  an  article  on  higher  education,  "Equality  of  Opportu- 
nities and  Elitism  in  the  Uruguayan  University."  The  same  authors 
contributed  a  chapter  on  "The  Family  in  Uruguay"  to  Man  Singh 
Das  and  Clinton  J.  Jesser's  The  Family  in  Latin  America. 

An  extremely  valuable  source  is  Finch's  Uruguay.  Statistical  data 
are  available  in  various  editions  of  the  Uruguayan  government  pub- 
lication Anuario  estadistico.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


93 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy 


Montevideo's  harbor 


URUGUAY  IS  A  WEALTHY  COUNTRY  by  Latin  American 
standards,  although  its  economic  development  has  been  sluggish 
since  the  1950s.  In  1990  the  country  had  a  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP — see  Glossary)  of  approximately  US$9.2  billion,  or 
US$2,970  per  capita,  placing  it  among  the  highest-income  coun- 
tries in  Latin  America.  Uruguay's  small  population  (just  over  3 
million)  and  low  population  growth  (0 . 7  percent  per  year)  enabled 
its  people  to  maintain  a  reasonable  standard  of  living  during  the 
1980s,  despite  the  nation's  unsteady  economic  performance.  Like 
many  other  countries  in  the  region,  Uruguay  faced  a  large  exter- 
nal debt  and  an  appreciable  public- sector  deficit,  both  of  which 
impeded  the  growth  of  the  economy.  Other  major  limitations  on 
growth  were  the  continued  dependence  on  a  few  agricultural 
products  and  one  of  South  America's  lowest  levels  of  foreign  and 
domestic  investment. 

Uruguay's  economy  developed  rapidly  during  the  first  three  de- 
cades of  the  twentieth  century  because  of  expanding  beef  and  wool 
exportation.  Rising  trade  income  led  to  the  creation  of  an  advanced 
welfare  state  in  which  the  government  redistributed  wealth  and  pro- 
tected workers.  After  agricultural  exports  leveled  off  in  the  1950s, 
the  government's  role  in  the  economy  expanded.  With  agriculture 
stalled  and  manufacturing  potential  limited  by  the  small  size  of  the 
domestic  market,  the  public  sector  became  the  source  of  most  new 
jobs  in  Uruguay.  The  economy  operated  behind  high  tariff  barri- 
ers, barring  competition  from  abroad.  An  alliance  between  the  na- 
tion's two  major  political  parties  upheld  this  statist  model  through 
the  1960s,  but  lack  of  GDP  growth  and  large  public-sector  deficits 
testified  to  its  inefficiency. 

Although  the  military  government  (1973-85)  enacted  major  eco- 
nomic reforms  during  the  1970s,  it  operated  with  high  fiscal  deficits 
and  borrowed  extensively  to  pay  for  those  deficits.  In  an  effort  to 
reorient  the  stagnated  economy  toward  external  markets,  the 
government  eliminated  price  controls  and  slashed  tariffs  while 
providing  subsidies  to  exporters.  These  reforms  of  the  goods  mar- 
ket produced  favorable  results  in  the  short  run:  exports,  invest- 
ment, and  GDP  all  increased  significantly.  When  the  government 
went  further,  however,  by  deregulating  the  banking  sector  in  hopes 
of  removing  inflationary  pressures,  the  economy  became  unsta- 
ble. In  1981  Uruguay's  economy  went  into  recession. 


97 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

One  source  of  instability  was  the  growing  "dollarization"  of  the 
banks.  When  foreign-exchange  regulations  were  canceled,  Unit- 
ed States  dollars  (mostly  from  Argentine  real  estate  investment) 
flowed  into  Uruguay.  Uruguayan  banks,  in  turn,  loaned  dollars 
to  private  companies  and  ranchers  within  the  country.  The  danger 
in  this  system  was  the  exchange  rate:  when  the  government  allowed 
its  currency,  the  Uruguayan  new  peso  (for  value  of  the  Uruguayan 
new  peso — see  Glossary),  to  float  against  the  dollar  in  1982,  the  peso 
value  of  many  Uruguayan  loans  suddenly  tripled.  Thus,  Uruguay 
faced  both  a  recession  and  a  domestic  debt  crisis  in  the  early  1980s. 

In  1986-87  the  economy  recovered  from  the  recession  as  real 
GDP  increased  by  6.6  percent  in  1986  and  4.9  percent  in  1987. 
The  renewed  emphasis  on  exports,  including  several  new  categories 
of  goods,  resulted  in  a  positive  trade  balance.  Real  wages,  which 
had  fallen  by  50  percent  in  the  1970s  but  risen  by  15  percent  in 
the  early  1980s,  increased  again  (but  only  marginally),  as  did  em- 
ployment (by  4  percent).  These  modest  improvements  could  not 
mask  fundamental  problems,  however.  Inflation  averaged  over  60 
percent  per  year  in  the  1980s,  despite  efforts  to  reduce  it.  In  addi- 
tion, the  domestic  debt  was  largely  absorbed  by  the  public  sector, 
but  in  the  process  Uruguay's  deficit  and  foreign  debt  became  larger. 
Debt  service  alone  absorbed  about  one-quarter  of  export  earnings. 
During  the  last  two  years  of  the  administration  of  Julio  Maria  San- 
guinetti  Cairolo  (1985-90),  fiscal  pressures  forced  the  government 
to  abandon  its  growth-promotion  strategy,  and  GDP  did  not  in- 
crease. On  the  contrary,  real  GDP  growth  fell  to  0.5  percent  in 
1988,  1.5  percent  in  1989,  and  an  estimated  -  0.4  percent  in  1990. 

In  1989  Sanguinetti  defended  his  administration's  economic 
record  in  terms  of  what  had  not  happened.  In  a  speech  to  the  General 
Assembly,  he  said  that  Uruguay's  political  and  economic  climate 
remained  stable  in  contrast  to  its  larger  neighbors  (Argentina  and 
Brazil).  The  nation's  economy  "had  not  collapsed  into  regional 
hyperinflation,  as  was  predicted;  nor  had  the  banking  crisis  that 
the  government  inherited  destroyed  the  financial  system;  nor  had 
the  heavy  external  debt  prevented  the  country  from  growing. ' '  The 
statement  was  an  apt  summary  of  both  the  government's  cautious 
philosophy  and  of  Uruguay's  limited  economic  progress  in  the  late 
1980s. 

The  Sanguinetti  government  could  claim  credit  for  steering  a 
sensible  course  during  a  difficult  decade  for  Latin  American  na- 
tions. The  government  did  not,  however,  make  much  progress  ad- 
dressing a  fundamental  limitation  on  the  economy  and  the  leading 
cause  of  the  deficit:  the  size  of  the  public  sector.  Powerful  public- 
sector  unions  made  it  difficult  for  the  government  to  reduce  public 


98 


The  Economy 


employment.  When,  for  example,  the  inefficient  passenger  rail 
service  was  discontinued  in  1988  because  of  declining  ridership, 
workers  were  not  released  but  rather  were  transferred  to  other 
government  jobs.  The  welfare-state  model  remained  largely  intact. 
By  the  last  two  years  of  the  decade,  however,  economists  and  poli- 
ticians were  beginning  to  ask  basic  questions  about  the  state's  proper 
role  in  the  economy. 

An  even  more  fundamental  question,  not  addressed  in  the  1980s, 
was  the  economy's  heavy  dependence  on  a  few  livestock  products, 
which  were  produced  by  primitive  agricultural  practices.  Although 
exports  could  be  diversified,  for  example,  by  producing  not  just 
wool  but  also  woolen  textiles  and  apparel,  the  supply  of  raw  material 
depended  on  methods  of  raising  sheep  and  cattle  that  had  not 
changed  significantiy  in  two  centuries.  Livestock  ranged  over  unim- 
proved pastures  whose  carrying  capacity  was  quite  limited;  produc- 
tion had  actually  decreased  since  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth 
century.  The  vulnerability  of  the  sector  was  demonstrated  in  the 
late  1980s  when  a  two-year  drought  (1988-89)  decimated  livestock 
herds. 

Such  fundamental  issues  were  still  in  the  background  as  Luis 
Alberto  Lacalle  de  Herrera  became  president  in  March  1990. 
Lacalle  indicated  that  his  government  would  continue  the  cautious 
adjustment  policies  of  its  predecessor,  seeking  to  reduce  inflation 
and  debt  first  and  to  resume  growth  second.  Lacalle  embraced 
privatization  and  drew  up  a  bill  to  eliminate  several  state  monop- 
olies. Continued  diversification  of  exports,  including  the  possibil- 
ity of  exporting  services,  also  appeared  to  hold  good  prospects  for 
economic  growth. 

Growth  and  Structure  of  the  Economy 

Uruguay's  recent  economic  history  can  be  divided  into  two  stark- 
ly contrasting  periods.  During  the  first,  from  the  late  1800s  until 
the  1950s,  Uruguay  achieved  remarkable  growth  and  a  high  stan- 
dard of  living.  Expanding  livestock  exports — principally  beef,  mut- 
ton, and  wool — accounted  for  this  economic  growth.  Advanced 
social  welfare  programs,  which  redistributed  wealth  from  the 
livestock  sector  to  the  rest  of  the  economy,  raised  the  standard  of 
living  for  a  majority  of  the  population  and  contributed  to  social 
harmony.  Booming  livestock  exports  funded  social  programs  and 
a  state-led  effort  to  build  up  new  industries  in  Uruguay,  such  as 
domestic  consumables  (mainly  food  and  beverages)  and  textiles. 
Thus,  although  Uruguay's  economy  was  almost  completely  depen- 
dent on  meat  and  wool  exports,  the  strong  earnings  from  those 
products  helped  to  diversify  the  economy.  As  long  as  its  exports 


99 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

continued  to  expand  and  world  prices  for  those  exports  remained 
high,  Uruguay's  economic  growth  was  ensured. 

When  export  earnings  faltered  in  the  1950s,  however,  the  fabric 
of  Uruguay's  economy  began  to  unravel.  The  country  entered  a 
decades-long  period  of  economic  stagnation.  Export  earnings  first 
declined  when  world  demand  fell  during  the  Great  Depression  of 
the  1930s.  Prices  later  recovered  somewhat,  but  a  more  important 
limitation  on  Uruguay's  export  earnings  arose:  livestock  produc- 
tion reached  its  limits.  Without  room  for  continued  expansion  of 
traditional  exports,  and  without  a  well-developed  industrial  sec- 
tor, it  became  increasingly  difficult  for  Uruguay  to  uphold  the  so- 
cial welfare  model  that  it  had  adopted  in  more  prosperous  times. 
The  memory  of  those  times,  when  livestock  products  earned  enough 
to  make  Uruguay  the  "Switzerland  of  South  America, "  made  Uru- 
guayans reluctant  to  completely  reshape  their  economy.  To  un- 
derstand that  reluctance  and  its  consequences,  it  is  necessary  to 
examine  Uruguay's  economic  history  in  more  detail. 

Colonial  Period 

The  foundation  for  Uruguay's  livestock-based  economy  was  laid 
well  before  the  nation  achieved  independence.  In  1603  Spanish 
colonists  released  cattle  and  horses  on  the  empty  plains  of  what 
is  now  Uruguay,  then  known  as  the  Banda  Oriental  (eastern  side, 
or  bank,  of  the  Rio  Uruguay).  The  livestock  thrived  in  Uruguay's 
temperate  climate,  grazing  on  the  natural  pastures  that  still  cover 
most  of  the  countryside.  By  the  early  1700s,  there  were  millions 
of  cattle  in  the  area.  During  the  "leather  age,"  which  lasted  for 
the  next  century  and  a  half,  Uruguay's  abundant  livestock  attracted 
traders  and  settlers  from  the  nearby  Argentine  provinces.  Hides 
became  the  area's  chief  export.  Cattie  raising,  which  seems  to  have 
begun  almost  by  chance,  quickly  took  hold  of  Uruguay's  rural 
economy. 

The  success  of  simple  livestock-ranching  techniques  in  Uruguay 
during  the  colonial  period  was  to  have  long-term  consequences. 
Uruguay's  temperate  climate,  natural  pastures,  and  abundant  land 
(because  of  its  small  population  during  the  colonial  period)  com- 
bined to  favor  extensive  methods  of  raising  cattle.  For  ranchers, 
these  methods  held  two  economic  advantages.  Both  investment  and 
labor  costs  were  kept  to  a  minimum  because  cattle  ranged  free, 
subsisted  on  natural  grass  cover,  and  required  little  care.  Well  af- 
ter independence  in  1828,  even  when  Uruguay  had  become  an  im- 
portant exporter  of  livestock  products,  these  advantages  continued 
to  exert  a  great  deal  of  influence  on  the  rural  sector.  Despite  the 
limitations  of  extensive  livestock  raising,  including  low  production 


100 


The  Economy 


levels  per  hectare  and  slow  growth  of  stock,  few  ranchers  ever  be- 
came convinced  that  more  intensive  production  techniques  were 
worth  the  cost.  As  a  result,  the  fundamental  method  of  livestock 
production  in  Uruguay  changed  very  little  in  over  two  centuries. 

Postindependence  Era 

During  the  decades  immediately  following  independence, 
however,  political  instability,  not  livestock  production  techniques, 
limited  the  development  of  Uruguay's  rural  economy.  Until  the 
mid- 1800s,  rival  factions  vied  for  control  of  the  countryside,  ob- 
structing commerce  and  confiscating  or  destroying  cattle  and  other 
property.  Foreign  investment,  which  was  to  play  an  important  role 
in  building  up  Uruguay's  infrastructure,  was  delayed.  And  although 
the  rural  population  was  small  to  begin  with,  many  settlers  left  the 
countryside  in  search  of  more  peaceful  surroundings.  Those  who 
remained  operated  cattle  ranches  (estancias)  or  practiced  subsistence 
agriculture. 

Rural  struggles  for  political  control  thus  slowed  the  growth  of 
the  livestock  sector.  By  contrast,  Montevideo,  Uruguay's  capital, 
where  political  struggles  were  less  strident  because  of  the  city's 
booming  trade  and  bustiing  social  and  cultural  life,  rapidly  became 
a  hub  of  economic  activity.  Montevideo  was  not  founded  until  1726, 
but  its  superb  port  allowed  it  to  gain  an  increasing  role  in  regional 
and  international  trade.  In  the  1800s,  the  Uruguayan  capital  be- 
came an  important  transshipment  point  because  European  import- 
ers and  exporters  preferred  its  port  to  that  of  nearby  Buenos  Aires 
(until  the  latter  was  improved  in  the  1870s).  However,  the  volume 
of  foreign  traded  goods  passing  through  Montevideo  had  only  a 
minimal  impact  on  rural  Uruguay.  As  a  result,  the  city's  develop- 
ment outpaced  and  diverged  from  that  of  the  countryside.  The 
different  economic  interests  in  the  two  areas  helped  drive  a  wedge 
between  rural  elites,  who  had  amassed  large  landholdings  and 
resented  foreign  involvement  in  the  economy,  and  urban  business- 
men, who  adopted  outward-oriented  attitudes  and  profited  from 
trade.  Later,  profits  from  exports  would  become  important  to  rural 
livestock  producers  as  well,  but  the  contrast  between  urban  and 
rural  economic  (and  political)  orientations  would  persist. 

The  Export  Model 

After  several  decades  of  arrested  development,  Uruguay's  econ- 
omy underwent  a  series  of  important  changes  during  the  latter  half 
of  the  1800s.  The  consolidation  of  political  control  by  the  Colora- 
do Party  (Partido  Colorado)  and  the  division  of  the  control  of  the 
departments  in  1872  spelled  the  end  of  almost  constant  warfare 


101 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

and  meant  that  the  departments  of  Uruguay  were  finally  united 
as  one  nation.  Internal  barriers  to  trade  were  removed,  and  the 
issuance  of  a  national  currency  (the  peso)  in  1862  favored  com- 
mercial activity.  Political  stability  also  allowed  increased  foreign 
involvement  in  the  economy  and  encouraged  technological  ad- 
vances. The  framework  for  Uruguay's  primary-product  export 
economy,  which  supplied  food  and  basic  inputs  to  Europe's  dy- 
namic industrial  sector,  was  erected  during  this  period. 

Livestock  production  changed  in  several  ways  as  Uruguay  ad- 
justed to  the  export  model.  First,  meat-packing  technology  was  in- 
troduced in  the  mid- 1860s,  allowing  canning  of  meat  for  export. 
Until  then,  beef  was  preserved  only  in  a  dry,  salted  form  (tasajo), 
which  appealed  to  a  narrow  export  market  (principally  Brazil  and 
Cuba,  where  it  was  fed  to  slave  laborers).  Second,  livestock  produc- 
tion was  diversified  when  sheep  ranching  expanded  rapidly,  reflect- 
ing the  British  textile  industry's  demand  for  imported  wool.  After 
1870  Uruguay  had  more  sheep  than  cattle,  largely  because  of  an 
influx  of  sheep  ranchers  from  France  and  Britain.  A  third  change 
in  the  livestock  sector  came  about  in  the  1870s  with  the  introduc- 
tion of  barbed  wire.  For  the  first  time,  the  boundaries  of  large  es- 
tancias  were  marked  off  precisely,  decreasing  the  number  of  ranch 
hands  needed  to  watch  over  herds  and  driving  many  subsistence 
farmers  off  lands  on  the  margins  of  large  estates.  Finally,  the  con- 
struction of  railroad  lines  and  telegraph  networks  provided  the  in- 
frastructure that  linked  rural  Uruguay  to  the  thriving  port  of 
Montevideo. 

These  changes  in  the  structure  of  the  economy  paved  the  way 
for  a  substantial  increase  in  export  earnings  while  reinforcing  the 
importance  of  livestock  production.  In  1876  Uruguay  had  a  posi- 
tive balance  of  trade  for  the  first  time,  and  its  export  volume  more 
than  doubled  over  the  next  decade.  Exports  of  wool  increased  dra- 
matically, matching  the  value  of  leather  exports  by  1884.  Residents 
of  Montevideo  were  said  to  gauge  the  country's  prosperity  by  count- 
ing the  stacks  of  cowhides  and  bales  of  wool  waiting  to  be  loaded 
aboard  ships.  After  1900  the  ability  to  ship  frozen  meat  to  Europe 
and  the  United  States  transformed  the  beef  industry,  added  to  Uru- 
guayan export  earnings  as  world  demand  for  beef  grew,  and  raised 
the  importance  of  cattle  production. 

The  nation's  rising  prosperity  at  the  turn  of  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury rested  firmly  on  rural  livestock  production.  Paradoxically, 
however,  it  was  in  Montevideo  that  the  most  dramatic  demographic 
and  economic  effects  of  growth  were  felt.  The  city's  population  in- 
creased, mainly  because  several  waves  of  immigrants  arrived  from 
Europe.  Most  of  these  immigrants  came  from  urban  areas  of  Italy 


102 


Bags  of  wool  ready  for  export  in  Montevideo 
Courtesy  Charles  Guy  Gillespie 

and  Spain,  so  it  was  natural  that  they  tended  to  settie  in  Uruguay's 
urban  center,  where  jobs  were  available.  At  the  same  time,  the 
city's  population  was  increasing  because  of  the  arrival  of  displaced 
laborers  from  the  Uruguayan  countryside.  Both  natives  and  im- 
migrants made  up  a  growing  pool  of  labor  for  Montevideo's  small 
but  dynamic  industries,  many  of  which  were  owned  by  foreign- 
ers. Using  mostly  artisanal  techniques,  the  city's  workshops  be- 
gan to  supply  the  home  market  with  a  variety  of  goods,  such  as 
footwear,  clothing,  wine,  tobacco,  paper,  furniture,  and  construc- 
tion materials. 

Batllism 

The  government's  protectionist  policies — in  the  form  of  tariffs  on 
imported  manufactured  goods,  first  imposed  during  the  late  1800s — 
encouraged  these  light  industries.  However,  it  was  Uruguay's  most 
significant  political  figure,  Jose  Batlle  y  Ordonez  (1903-07,  1911  — 
15),  who  devised  an  overarching  government  strategy  that  took 
into  account  the  growing  urban  population  and  set  the  tone  for 
the  nation's  economic  development  for  much  of  the  1900s. 

Two  aspects  of  Batlle  y  Ordonez's  sophisticated  political  program 
were  most  relevant  for  the  long-term  development  of  the  economy. 
First,  the  social  components  of  Batllism  raised  the  standing  of  the 


103 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


average  laborer.  The  government  enacted  legislation  that  was  un- 
precedented in  Latin  America:  a  minimum  wage,  a  day  of  rest  af- 
ter six  workdays,  workmen's  compensation,  and  old-age  pensions. 
Second,  and  more  significant  over  the  long  term,  however,  were 
Batlle  y  Ordonez's  efforts  to  give  the  state  a  multifaceted  role  in 
the  economy.  The  state  was  to  regulate  the  economy,  perform  key 
activities,  protect  laborers  from  unfair  working  conditions,  and 
minimize  the  influence  that  foreign-owned  companies  would  have 
in  Uruguay  (see  Batlle  y  Ordonez  and  the  Modern  State,  ch.  1). 

Under  Batlle  y  Ordonez's  leadership,  the  state  created  or  na- 
tionalized a  wide  range  of  service  enterprises,  officially  known  as 
autonomous  entities  (autonomous  agencies  or  state  enterprises;  see 
Glossary),  including  an  insurance  company,  public  utilities,  and 
mortgage  banks.  Later,  the  government  became  deeply  involved 
in  the  production  of  goods,  operating  over  twenty  state  enterprises, 
including  the  giant  National  Administration  of  Fuels,  Alcohol,  and 
Portland  Cement  (Administration  Nacional  de  Combustibles,  Al- 
cohol, y  Portland — ANCAP).  By  1931  these  state  enterprises  em- 
ployed 9  percent  of  the  nation's  work  force,  including  16  percent 
of  the  workers  in  Montevideo. 

Uruguay's  novel  economic  policies  bore  fruit.  Incomes  rose  on 
the  strength  of  impressive  export  earnings.  The  value  of  exports 
doubled  between  1900  and  the  onset  of  World  War  I,  when  beef 
exports,  for  example,  reached  130,000  tons  per  year.  Between  1926 
and  1930,  beef  shipments  continued  to  increase  at  a  rapid  rate, 
averaging  206,000  tons  per  year,  a  record  that  has  not  been  equaled 
since  then.  During  the  same  period,  the  Batlle  y  Ordonez  initia- 
tives improved  the  lot  of  the  worker,  helped  create  a  large  middle 
class,  and  added  to  the  productive  capacity  of  the  economy.  The 
fact  that  all  three  developments — increased  export  earnings,  im- 
proved conditions  for  labor,  and  successful  state  enterprises — 
occurred  simultaneously  helped  Uruguayans  to  associate  state  in- 
tervention with  prosperity. 

The  success  of  the  export  model,  because  of  rising  world  demand 
and  prices,  was  seen  as  the  success  of  Batllism.  However,  as  many 
observers  have  pointed  out,  the  restructuring  of  the  economy  that 
occurred  under  Batlle  y  Ordonez  and  his  successors  did  not  ex- 
tend to  the  roots  of  that  economy,  the  livestock  sector.  Because  his 
political  base  did  not  reach  beyond  Montevideo  into  the  country- 
side, and  because  he  believed  that  market  forces  and  property  tax- 
es would  lead  livestock  producers  to  become  more  efficient,  Batlle 
y  Ordonez  essentially  left  the  rural  sector  to  its  own  devices.  In 
doing  so,  he  limited  the  extent  to  which  his  own  bold  reforms  could 
transform  the  economy. 


104 


The  Economy 


Stagnation 

The  precarious  nature  of  Uruguay's  primary-product  export 
economy,  so  successful  during  the  early  decades  of  the  1900s,  was 
gradually  made  clear  for  two  distinct  reasons.  First,  the  sharp  con- 
traction of  world  demand  for  Uruguay's  exports  during  the  Great 
Depression  showed  the  hazards  of  being  at  the  mercy  of  external 
markets  and  foreign  prices.  Uruguay's  export  earnings  fell  by  40 
percent  between  1930  and  1932  as  world  demand  contracted  and 
importing  nations  adopted  protectionist  measures.  Such  a  drastic 
decrease  in  earnings  was  only  temporary,  however.  During  World 
War  II,  prices  recovered,  making  the  export  model  appear  viable 
again,  if  vulnerable.  Still  later,  Uruguayan  exporters  were  occa- 
sionally able  to  gain  handsomely  from  world  price  increases.  The 
most  dramatic  example  of  this  phenomenon  occurred  during  the 
Korean  War  (1950-53).  Wool  prices  tripled  temporarily  as  demand 
for  cold- weather  uniforms  surged. 

The  volatility  of  export  prices,  which  was  itself  troubling,  also 
delayed  recognition  of  the  second,  underlying  limitation  on  Uru- 
guay's export-based  economy:  the  limited  supply  of  livestock 
products.  Production  of  beef  stagnated  by  the  mid- 1930s,  wool  by 
the  mid-1950s.  With  only  minor  modifications,  ranchers  continued 
to  rely  on  the  extensive  production  techniques  used  since  the  colonial 
period.  Livestock  production  was  therefore  limited  by  the  carry- 
ing capacity  of  the  land.  For  many  years,  successful  livestock 
producers  had  been  able  to  expand  their  operations  by  simply  pur- 
chasing or  renting  additional  land,  but  after  the  tremendous  ex- 
pansion of  both  cattie  ranching  and  sheep  ranching  during  the  early 
decades  of  the  1900s,  this  option  was  no  longer  available.  Producers 
rejected  the  obvious  alternative  of  increasing  production  levels  by 
using  more  intensive  techniques,  such  as  fertilized  pastures.  Ac- 
cording to  a  study  published  by  the  Economy  Institute  (Instituto 
de  Economfa)  at  the  University  of  the  Republic  (also  known  as  the 
University  of  Montevideo)  in  1969,  ranchers  chose  not  to  invest 
their  profits  in  improved  pastures  because  many  more  lucrative 
investments  were  available.  Preferred  investments  included  manu- 
facturing (after  World  War  II),  urban  real  estate  (during  the  1950s), 
and  overseas  opportunities  (leading  to  substantial  capital  flight  dur- 
ing the  1960s). 

The  stagnation  of  livestock  production  undercut  the  export  model 
that  had  brought  Uruguay  its  prosperity.  At  first  the  nation  was 
able  to  avoid  complete  economic  paralysis  by  turning  from  livestock 
production  to  industrial  development,  from  the  dormant  country- 
side to  the  dynamic  city  of  Montevideo.  Like  most  other  Latin 


105 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

American  nations,  Uruguay  responded  to  the  Great  Depression 
by  implementing  a  policy  intended  to  encourage  diversification  away 
from  primary  products,  reduce  imports,  and  increase  employment. 

The  so-called  import-substitution  industrialization  (see  Glossary) 
strategy  raised  tariff  barriers  to  discourage  imports  and  protect  new 
manufacturing  enterprises.  In  addition  to  increased  protectionism, 
several  other  conditions  in  Uruguay  favored  the  industrialization 
that  accelerated  beginning  in  the  mid- 1930s.  Labor  was  plentiful 
in  Montevideo;  100,000  immigrants  had  arrived  from  Europe  dur- 
ing the  1920s.  Equitable  income  distribution  also  meant  that  there 
was  a  sizable  middle-class  market  for  manufactured  products.  Fi- 
nally, wealthy  livestock  producers  were  ready  to  invest  in  new  en- 
terprises. 

Industry  developed  rapidly  under  these  conditions.  The  num- 
ber of  firms,  most  of  them  employing  ten  or  fewer  workers,  tri- 
pled from  7,000  in  1930  to  21,000  in  1955.  Apart  from  the  growth 
of  traditional  types  of  enterprises  (food,  beverages,  textiles,  and 
leather),  there  was  also  substantial  progress  in  heavier  industries 
(chemicals,  oil  refining,  metallurgy,  machinery,  and  electrical 
equipment).  Workers  earned  good  wages,  and  production  increased 
more  rapidly  than  employment,  meaning  that  labor  productivity 
was  on  the  rise.  During  the  1940s,  industrial  output  overtook  live- 
stock raising  as  a  share  of  GDP. 

But  the  industrial  boom  was  short-lived.  One  sign  of  trouble  was 
the  fact  that  90  percent  of  manufactured  goods  were  consumed 
within  Uruguay.  Because  domestic  industries  had  grown  up  behind 
high  tariff  barriers,  they  were  not  competitive  on  world  markets. 
This  common  shortcoming  of  the  import- substitution  industriali- 
zation strategy  was  particularly  serious,  given  Uruguay's  small  in- 
ternal market.  Although  income  distribution  was  equitable,  the 
potential  for  home-industry  expansion  was  limited  because  con- 
sumption was  limited.  Most  industries  reached  their  full  potential 
just  two  decades  after  the  beginning  of  the  industrialization  process. 
During  the  mid-1950s,  imports  of  machinery  and  industrial  equip- 
ment that  were  essential  for  the  further  development  of  heavy  in- 
dustry leveled  off  and  then  declined.  Industrial  growth  ceased.  With 
the  stagnation  of  both  industrial  production  and  livestock  produc- 
tion in  the  mid-1950s,  Uruguay's  economy  entered  what  would 
be  a  twenty-year  crisis.  Real  per  capita  income,  which  had  grown 
rapidly  during  the  early  1900s,  increased  at  an  average  of  only  0.5 
percent  per  year  from  the  mid-1950s  to  the  mid-1970s.  The  peri- 
od was  characterized  by  declining  exports,  a  negative  balance  of 
payments,  decreasing  reserves,  and  growing  inflation. 


106 


The  Economy 


The  prolonged  nature  of  the  crisis,  i.e.,  the  two-decade  lack  of 
fundamental  economic  restructuring,  had  much  do  to  with  the 
government  policies  that  were  set  in  motion  during  the  Batllist 
period.  As  two  of  the  three  pillars  of  Uruguay's  economy  (livestock 
and  industry)  crumbled,  the  third  (the  public  sector)  bore  an  in- 
creasing burden.  State  enterprises  expanded  until,  by  the  1960s, 
they  generated  30  percent  of  GDP  and  paid  40  percent  of  all  salar- 
ies. Once-dynamic  state  enterprises  became  expensive  public  works 
projects.  Elaborate  formulas  were  devised  to  allow  Uruguay's  two 
principal  political  parties — the  Colorado  Party  and  the  National 
Party  (Partido  Nacional,  usually  referred  to  as  the  Blancos) — to 
dispense  public-sector  jobs  in  proportion  to  votes  received.  Eco- 
nomically, a  change  of  the  ruling  party  meant  very  little.  Both  par- 
ties were  allied  in  upholding  the  social  welfare  model,  which 
amounted  to  keeping  the  state  enterprises  and  the  bureaucracy 
afloat.  To  do  so,  they  incurred  a  large  foreign  debt  and  penalized 
the  livestock  sector  through  domestic  price  controls.  The  economy 
turned  inward  through  continued  protectionism  and  artificially  high 
exchange  rates.  As  a  result,  the  once- vital  export  sector  could  not 
develop  the  momentum  required  to  pull  the  economy  out  of  the 
doldrums. 

The  protracted  economic  crisis  became  a  political  crisis  in  the 
late  1960s.  Within  Uruguay  the  welfare  state  government  could 
provide  no  answers  to  the  twin  challenges  of  urban  terrorism  and 
growing  inflation.  Outside  Uruguay  military  regimes  in  both  of 
its  larger  neighbors  (Argentina  and  Brazil)  cast  long  shadows,  and 
international  economic  conditions  made  the  insulation  of  Uruguay's 
economy  more  difficult.  As  the  military  regime  took  power  in  1973, 
two  international  economic  factors  were  particularly  relevant:  the 
quadrupling  of  oil  prices  (Uruguay  imported  all  of  its  petroleum) 
and  the  closure  of  European  Community  markets  to  imported  beef. 
These  factors  helped  convince  the  military  government  that  a  major 
restructuring  of  the  economy  was  needed. 

Restructuring  under  the  Military  Regime,  1973-85 

The  military  government  was  at  first  able  to  redirect  and  revitalize 
the  economy.  During  the  first  phase  of  stabilization  and  structural 
adjustment,  from  1973  to  1978,  government  policies  had  two  cen- 
tral goals:  to  reestablish  an  export-oriented  growth  policy  and  to 
eliminate  inflation.  In  pursuit  of  the  latter,  the  government  tightened 
the  money  supply,  sharply  cut  the  public  budget,  and  held  real 
wages  down.  The  effort  was  partially  successful.  Inflation  declined 
from  over  100  percent  per  year  during  the  1960s  to  about  50  per- 
cent per  year  in  the  1973-78  period.  To  reorient  the  productive 


107 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

sectors  of  the  economy,  the  government  eliminated  most  price  con- 
trols, lowered  tariff  barriers  from  a  maximum  of  346  percent  in 
1974  to  180  percent  in  1977,  and  subsidized  exports.  Foreign- 
exchange  and  financial  markets  were  also  made  more  liberal,  in- 
creasing Uruguay's  integration  with  world  markets.  The  immedi- 
ate results  were  dramatic:  from  1974  to  1978,  GDP  increased  by 
an  average  of  3.9  percent  per  year,  after  two  decades  of  stagna- 
tion. Real  exports  grew  by  14  percent  annually  during  the  same 
period,  and  productive  investment  increased  by  16  percent  per  year. 

Dissatisfied  with  some  aspects  of  the  economy's  performance, 
however,  the  government  again  adopted  several  measures  between 
1978  and  1982.  These  included  passing  a  foreign  investment  act 
(designed  to  attract  foreign  investment),  reducing  government 
spending,  and  selling  off  a  few  state  enterprises. 

Inflation,  which  had  dropped  below  40  percent  in  1976  but  had 
since  increased  again,  remained  the  primary  target  of  the  new 
stabilization  policies.  Authorities  believed  that  two  factors  were  fuel- 
ing inflation:  the  influx  of  external  funds  (allowed  under  liberal- 
ized financial  regulations)  and  the  continuing  price  increases  by 
local  firms,  still  protected  from  foreign  competition  because  tariffs 
had  only  been  reduced  partially.  The  government,  then,  saw  con- 
tinued inflation  as  a  problem  caused  by  incomplete  economic  liber- 
alization and  moved  to  accelerate  reforms.  Banks  were  largely 
deregulated  as  reserve  requirements  were  eliminated  and  foreign 
currency  deposits  allowed.  Import  tariffs  for  most  products  were 
reduced,  allowing  increased  foreign  competition.  Export  subsidies 
were  reduced  or  eliminated.  In  addition,  the  government  began 
announcing  moderate  exchange-rate  devaluations  several  months 
in  advance  in  an  attempt  to  slow  inflation  and  discourage  curren- 
cy speculation. 

These  measures  reduced  inflation  somewhat,  but  instead  of 
stabilizing  the  economy,  they  disrupted  the  gradual  process  of  eco- 
nomic recovery  that  had  been  under  way  for  several  years.  Uru- 
guayan firms,  many  of  which  had  reoriented  production  toward 
exports  after  1974,  faced  rising  internal  costs  when  subsidies  were 
removed.  At  the  same  time,  they  became  less  competitive  abroad 
because  devaluations  did  not  keep  pace  with  inflation.  Banks 
responded  to  deregulation  by  making  risky  loans,  many  of  which 
became  nonperforming  as  the  expansion  slowed.  The  public  deficit 
increased,  especially  when  the  government  stepped  in  to  rescue 
several  major  banks.  External  debt  increased  when  the  government 
was  forced  to  borrow  abroad.  A  second  oil  shock  in  1979  (the  first 
was  in  1973-74)  and  an  Argentine  devaluation  in  1981  both  hurt 


108 


The  Economy 


Uruguay's  trade  balance.  As  the  restructuring  process  broke  down, 
capital  flight  became  rampant. 

The  military  government's  attempt  to  regain  economic  stability 
during  its  last  two  years  in  office  resulted  in  a  severe  recession. 
After  increasing  over  several  years  to  a  high  of  6.2  percent  in  1979, 
GDP  growth  slowed  to  1.9  percent  in  1981  and  plunged  to  -  9.4 
percent  in  1982.  Real  GDP  declined  by  one-sixth  from  1982  to  1984. 
Unemployment  increased  to  13  percent,  further  increasing  the  bur- 
den on  the  nation's  welfare  system.  During  its  last  three  years  in 
office,  the  government's  most  significant  accomplishment  was  far 
more  modest  than  its  earlier  reforms:  it  reduced  the  public  deficit 
from  18.4  percent  of  GDP  in  1982  to  9.2  percent  at  the  end  of  1984. 

As  the  military  government  prepared  to  leave  power  after  a  tur- 
bulent twelve  years,  five  major  issues  confronted  economic  plan- 
ners. First,  the  government  had  succeeded  in  reorienting  production 
toward  exports,  but  by  the  mid-1980s  traditional  export  markets 
were  growing  less  hospitable.  For  example,  world  beef  prices  had 
fallen,  partly  because  of  subsidized  competition  from  the  Europe- 
an Community.  Second,  the  public  sector,  which  played  a  large 
role  in  Uruguay's  economy,  faced  a  growing  internal  and  exter- 
nal debt  burden.  This  reduced  savings  available  to  finance  private 
investment  and  made  it  difficult  for  the  government  to  meet  its 
social  security  obligations.  Third,  many  firms  and  banks  were  finan- 
cially weak,  the  former  because  of  debts  incurred  before  the  reces- 
sion and  the  latter  because  of  nonperforming  loans.  Fourth, 
unemployment  remained  high.  Finally,  inflation,  a  primary  tar- 
get of  the  attempted  reforms,  had  increased  from  50  percent  in  1983 
to  72  percent  in  1985.  The  first  and  second  issues  were  concerned 
with  enduring  themes:  the  importance  of  livestock  exports  and  the 
government's  role  in  the  economy.  The  third,  fourth,  and  fifth  is- 
sues were  products  of  the  reforms  that  had  brought  Uruguay  out 
of  stagnation  without  completely  restructuring  the  economy. 

The  Sanguinetti  Government 

The  civilian  government  that  entered  office  in  1985  inherited 
an  economy  whose  fundamental  elements  had  not  changed  a  great 
deal  for  many  years.  The  economy  was  still  based  on  agriculture. 
In  1988,  midway  through  the  Sanguinetti  government's  term  of 
office,  livestock,  crop  production,  and  fishing  generated  only  13 
percent  of  GDP  direcdy.  But  the  largest  industries  in  Uruguay — 
food  processing  and  textiles — depended  on  agricultural  inputs. 
Thus,  the  link  between  agriculture  and  industry,  which  generated  33 
percent  of  GDP  in  1988,  was  strong.  Another  inescapable  feature 


109 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


GDP  1988  =  US  $7.9  billion 


TRADE- 
RELATED 
ACTIVITIES 


AGRICULTURE 
(INCLUDING 

FISHING, 
FORESTRY, 


INDUSTRY 
(INCLUDING 


AND 
LIVESTOCK) 
13% 


MANUFACTURING, 


CONSTRUCTION, 


ENERGY, 


AND  MINING) 


33% 


SERVICES 
(INCLUDING 
BANKING  AND 
FINANCIAL 
SERVICES, 
COMMERCE, 


COMMUNICATIONS, 


GOVERNMENT 
SERVICES, 


TOURISM,  AND 
TRANSPORTATION) 
42% 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  States,  Central  Intelligence  Agency,  The  World 
Factbook,  1989,  Washington,  1989,  310;  and  Economist  Intelligence  Unit,  Country 
Report:  Uruguay,  Paraguay  [London],  No.  1,  1990,  3. 

Figure  6.  Gross  Domestic  Product  (GDP)  by  Sector,  1988 

of  the  economy  was  the  central  role  of  government.  Uruguayan 
national  statistics  included  the  government,  which  comprised  not 
only  agencies  such  as  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense  and  the 
postal  service  but  also,  within  the  service  sector,  a  large  commer- 
cial bank  and  several  insurance  companies.  The  entire  service 
sector — including  activities  such  as  private  banking,  transportation, 
and  tourism — accounted  for  42  percent  of  GDP.  The  external  sec- 
tor, i.e.,  activities  involving  foreign  trade,  generated  the  remain- 
ing 12  percent  of  GDP  (see  fig.  6). 

The  record  of  the  Sanguinetti  government  was  moderately  suc- 
cessful. The  administration  entered  office  facing  an  economy  just 
beginning  to  recover  from  a  severe  recession.  That  recovery  con- 
tinued, as  real  GDP  growth  averaged  over  5  percent  per  year  dur- 
ing the  administration's  first  two  full  years  in  office  (see  table  9, 
Appendix).  During  1988  and  1989,  however,  real  GDP  growth 
nearly  ceased.  In  other  areas,  the  record  was  similar.  Unemploy- 
ment fell  from  13  percent  in  1985  to  9  percent  in  1987  but  was 
reduced  no  further.  Inflation  fell  at  first,  then  increased  again. 


110 


The  Economy 


The  lack  of  sustained  economic  progress  during  the  late  1980s 
was  not  simply  a  result  of  the  Sanguinetti  government's  policies, 
however.  The  government  and  the  private  sector  inherited  many 
serious  difficulties  in  the  mid-1980s:  the  growing  external  debt,  a 
large  government  bureaucracy  in  deficit,  a  burdensome  social  secu- 
rity system,  and  a  weakened  currency.  Because  they  could  not  im- 
mediately change  these  features,  the  government  and  the  private 
sector  chose  to  begin  a  cautious  policy  of  readjustment.  Fundamen- 
tal restructuring  was  again  delayed. 

Economic  Policy 

Government  policy  has  greatly  influenced  the  development,  or 
lack  of  development,  of  Uruguay's  economy  during  the  twentieth 
century.  The  government  first  became  an  important  regulator  of 
economic  activity  when  it  arranged  for  a  portion  of  livestock  ex- 
port earnings  to  be  transferred  to  the  urban  working  class.  As  its 
interventionist  role  expanded  during  the  early  1900s,  the  central 
government  became  the  administrator  of  an  elaborate  social  wel- 
fare system  that  was  generous  by  Latin  American  standards.  After 
the  Great  Depression,  the  government  enacted  tariff  policies  to  pro- 
mote domestic  manufacturing  and  adopted  the  strategy  known  as 
import- substitution  industrialization.  The  state  also  became  an  im- 
portant participant  in  the  economy.  In  a  pattern  repeated  elsewhere 
in  Latin  America,  the  central  government  nationalized  or  estab- 
lished several  of  the  largest  service  and  manufacturing  companies 
in  the  country  (see  Industry,  this  ch.).  It  became  the  single  largest 
employer  and  producer  in  the  nation. 

The  level  of  government  involvement  in  the  economy  took  on 
increasing  significance  after  Uruguay  entered  a  period  of  economic 
stagnation.  When  export  earnings  leveled  off  in  the  1950s,  the  state's 
two  roles  in  the  economy  became  difficult  to  sustain  yet  vital  to 
the  population.  Growing  numbers  of  unemployed  persons  and 
retirees  depended  on  the  social  welfare  system,  even  as  government 
revenues  used  to  support  that  system  declined.  In  addition,  the  over- 
all economic  slowdown  made  public- sector  employment  extremely 
attractive.  Public  employment,  which  was  controlled  by  political 
parties  rather  than  market  forces,  increased  at  2.6  percent  per  year 
during  1955-61 ,  while  private- sector  employment  grew  at  only  0.9 
percent.  Government  consumption  expenditures  for  salaries  and 
services  remained  high,  but  public  investment  was  scaled  back, 
penalizing  future  productivity.  Despite  this  shift  in  the  spending 
pattern,  the  state's  income  did  not  keep  pace  with  its  expenditures. 
By  the  1960s,  a  public-sector  deficit  had  developed,  requiring  bor- 
rowing from  abroad  and  helping  to  fuel  inflation. 


Ill 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


The  public-sector  deficit  was  the  hallmark  of  Uruguay's  stag- 
nated economy  in  the  1960s.  Thereafter,  efforts  to  reduce  the  deficit 
were  a  central  feature  of  structural  reforms.  However,  the  web  of 
government  commitments  within  the  economy — involving  both  ad- 
ministrative and  productive  activity — made  this  a  difficult  task.  The 
military  government  (1973-85)  partially  succeeded  at  the  larger 
task  of  reorienting  the  economy  toward  world  markets  but  made 
only  modest  headway  against  the  public-sector  deficit.  During  the 
second  half  of  the  1980s,  the  deficit  was  at  first  reduced  but  then 
increased  again  in  the  last  two  years  of  the  Sanguinetti  adminis- 
tration. 

Fiscal  Policy 

The  civilian  government  that  entered  office  in  1985  faced  a  se- 
vere fiscal  problem:  the  chronic  public-sector  deficit.  It  also  faced 
a  broader  difficulty:  an  economy  in  deep  recession.  The  deficit  was 
believed  to  be  perpetuating  inflation.  Inflation,  in  turn,  prevented 
the  economy  from  reaching  a  stable  position  conducive  to  renewed 
growth.  Thus,  the  priorities  of  the  Sanguinetti  administration's  eco- 
nomic plan — devised  in  cooperation  with  the  International  Mone- 
tary Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary) — were  to  reduce  the  deficit,  bring 
down  inflation,  and  improve  the  balance  of  payments. 

These  multiyear  fiscal  measures  were  considered  essential  for 
renewed  growth,  but  the  serious  consequences  of  the  recession  called 
for  immediate  action  to  spur  economic  activity.  Between  1981  and 
1984,  the  recession  had  taken  its  toll  on  all  sectors  of  the  economy. 
GDP  had  declined  by  almost  17  percent;  agricultural  production 
by  12  percent;  manufacturing  by  21  percent;  construction  by  48 
percent;  and  capital  formation  (investment)  by  56  percent.  Work- 
ers were  especially  hard-hit  by  the  decline.  Between  November  1982 
and  March  1985,  real  salaries  fell  by  19  percent.  In  real  terms, 
workers  earned  only  half  of  what  they  had  earned  in  1968,  and 
unemployment  had  increased  to  13  percent.  Unable  to  ignore  these 
signs  of  distress,  the  Sanguinetti  administration  also  adopted  an 
economic  growth  policy. 

Initially,  the  stabilization  effort  took  precedence  over  efforts  to 
boost  economic  activity.  The  idea  was  to  break  the  inflationary 
momentum  of  the  economy  first  and  restore  growth  second.  In  fiscal 
terms,  the  goal  was  to  reduce  the  public-sector  deficit  from  10  per- 
cent of  GDP  in  mid-1985  to  5  percent  of  GDP  by  1986.  The  scope 
of  government  involvement  in  the  Uruguayan  economy  meant  that 
the  public-sector  deficit  had  to  be  attacked  on  three  fronts:  the  cen- 
tral government,  by  reducing  expenditures  and  increasing  revenues; 
the  Central  Bank  of  Uruguay,  which  accounted  for  about  half  of 


112 


The  Economy 


the  deficit;  and  the  state  enterprises,  many  of  which  had  run  small 
deficits  through  most  of  the  1980s. 

The  results  of  the  stabilization  effort  were  ambiguous.  On  the 
one  hand,  the  Sanguinetti  government  easily  reached  its  fiscal  tar- 
gets. During  its  first  two  years  in  office,  the  government  enacted 
tax  increases  that  raised  real  government  revenues  by  58  percent. 
Meanwhile,  real  expenditures  increased  by  only  43  percent  (see 
table  10;  table  11;  table  12,  Appendix).  As  a  result,  the  public- 
sector  deficit  declined  to  about  3  percent  of  GDP,  better  than  the 
government  had  planned.  Simultaneously,  however,  inflation — 
the  underlying  target  of  the  government's  fiscal  policy — hardly 
slowed  at  all.  Inflation  went  from  an  annual  rate  of  72  percent  in 
1985  to  57  percent  in  1987,  but  it  increased  to  85  percent  in  1989. 
The  persistence  of  inflation  in  the  face  of  fiscal  restraint  did  not 
reflect  a  failure  of  the  Sanguinetti  government's  fiscal  policy;  rather, 
inflation  persisted  because  of  the  government's  monetary  and 
exchange-rate  policies,  the  instruments  it  used  to  promote  economic 
growth  (see  Monetary  and  Exchange-Rate  Policy,  this  ch.).  Fiscal 
policy  was  also  inadequate  because  the  government  expanded  the 
money  supply  to  pay  for  the  fiscal  deficit  (8.5  percent  by  the  end 
of  1989). 

Monetary  and  Exchange-Rate  Policy 

The  Sanguinetti  administration  turned  to  Uruguay's  formerly 
strong  export  sector  in  devising  its  strategy  for  renewed  economic 
growth.  Through  a  combination  of  exchange-rate  policy,  liberal 
credit  to  exporters,  and  cultivation  of  new  markets,  the  govern- 
ment hoped  to  revitalize  the  traditional  export  sector  (primarily 
beef  and  wool)  and  promote  the  manufacture  of  nontraditional  ex- 
ports such  as  apparel. 

The  most  important  policy  tool  was  the  exchange  rate.  Initially, 
the  government  planned  to  allow  the  peso  to  float  freely,  in  keep- 
ing with  its  philosophy  of  minimal  market  intervention.  In  prac- 
tice, however,  the  monetary  authorities  carried  out  a  "dirty  float," 
repeatedly  entering  the  currency  market  to  lower  the  exchange  rate 
of  the  peso.  Devaluation  translated  into  increased  competitiveness. 
For  a  small  country  like  Uruguay,  facing  world  (United  States  dol- 
lar) prices  for  goods,  a  devaluation  of  the  peso  (more  pesos  per 
dollar)  meant  that  an  exporter  would  receive  more  pesos  for  a  given 
quantity  of  goods.  This  effectively  raised  the  profitability  of  ex- 
ports (leaving  aside  other  effects)  and  encouraged  the  growth  of 
the  sector. 

Exports  and  GDP  both  increased  after  1985,  partly  as  a  result 
of  the  more  competitive  exchange  rate.  But  the  policy  also  had 


113 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


1988  WORK  FORCE  =  1.3  MILLION 


SERVICES  AND 
OTHER  ACTIVITIES 
20% 


TRADE  AND 
COMMERCE 
12% 


PUBLIC  SECTOR 

30% 


AGRICULTURE 
(INCLUDING 
FISHING, 
FORESTRY,  AND 
LIVESTOCK) 
15% 


INDUSTRY 
(INCLUDING  CONSTRUCTION, 
ENERGY,  MANUFACTURING, 
AND  MINING) 
23% 


Figure  7.  Employment  by  Sector,  1988 


inflationary  effects  that  counteracted  the  government's  restrained 
fiscal  policy.  The  government's  intervention  in  the  currency  mar- 
ket consisted  of  buying  foreign  exchange  and  selling  pesos.  This 
raised  the  supply  of  pesos  and  lowered  their  price  relative  to  other 
currencies  (the  exchange  rate).  But  the  intervention  also  increased 
the  foreign-exchange  component  of  the  money  supply,  thus  fuel- 
ing inflation.  The  government  attempted  to  compensate  for  this 
increase  in  the  monetary  base  by  decreasing  other  components  of 
the  money  supply,  a  policy  known  as  sterilization.  However,  an 
increasing  share  of  Uruguayan  bank  deposits  were  denominated 
in  United  States  dollars  rather  than  pesos.  Thus,  the  efforts  to  re- 
strict the  peso  monetary  base  had  little  effect  on  the  overall  money 
supply,  which  continued  to  increase.  As  a  result,  the  government 
could  not  fine-tune  its  export-promotion  strategy  to  eliminate  in- 
flationary effects.  Inflation  persisted  despite  the  decline  of  the  public- 
sector  deficit.  In  short,  the  government's  notable  accomplishments 
on  the  fiscal  side  were  largely  negated  on  the  monetary  side. 

Labor 

The  labor  force  in  Uruguay  was  small  (1.4  million  in  1990),  about 


114 


The  Economy 


80  percent  urban,  and  educated  at  least  to  a  high  school  level.  In 
1988  about  30  percent  of  workers  were  employed  in  the  public  sec- 
tor, 23  percent  in  industry,  15  percent  in  agriculture,  12  percent 
in  trade  and  commerce,  and  20  percent  in  services  and  other  activi- 
ties (see  fig.  7).  During  the  1970s,  workers  experienced  a  sharp 
decline  in  real  wages,  which  they  only  partially  regained  in  the 
1980s.  The  problems  of  the  labor  force,  reflecting  the  overall  difficul- 
ties of  the  Uruguayan  economy,  led  to  widespread  strikes  and  un- 
rest that  hindered  economic  growth  during  the  1980s.  In  view  of 
Uruguay's  fundamental  structural  difficulties,  an  accommodation 
with  the  labor  movement  remained  an  important  issue  for  the 
government. 

The  Labor  Movement 

Several  of  the  uncommon  economic  and  political  characteristics 
of  Uruguay  influenced  the  development  of  its  labor  movement  dur- 
ing the  early  1900s.  First,  because  the  only  sizable  concentration 
of  workers  was  in  Montevideo,  the  labor  movement  was  largely 
restricted  to  that  city  and  was  thus  not  really  a  national  phenome- 
non. Second,  the  small  number  of  workers  employed  by  most  in- 
dividual firms  limited  the  tendency  of  workers  to  form  mass 
organizations.  Third,  the  government  played  a  central  role  in  labor 
policy.  State  enterprises  and  government  organizations  became  the 
nation's  largest  employer.  In  addition,  legislation  established  many 
private- sector  labor  policies  that  preempted  organized  labor. 

Uruguay's  laborers,  like  the  economy  as  a  whole,  made  great 
strides  during  the  early  decades  of  the  1900s.  Ironically,  this  progress 
slowed  the  growth  of  a  cohesive  labor  movement.  President  Batlle 
y  Ordonez,  who  firmly  supported  the  working  class  and  the  right 
to  strike,  was  an  important  figure  for  laborers  during  this  period. 
His  ideology  of  Batllism — in  sharp  contrast  to  the  repression  of  labor 
in  many  other  Latin  American  nations — aimed  to  reconcile  labor 
and  capital,  or  employees  and  owners.  The  Batllist  government 
created  the  Office  of  Labor  and  ensured  that  a  share  of  the  increas- 
ing livestock  export  earnings  was  transferred  to  the  urban  work- 
ing class.  By  the  late  1920s,  legislation  limited  the  workweek  and 
workday,  established  a  minimum  wage,  and  required  that  benefits 
be  paid  to  injured  or  retired  laborers.  This  congenial  atmosphere 
gained  the  official  labor  movement  only  limited  support.  In  1926, 
for  example,  only  6,000  out  of  65,000  industrial  workers  were  dues- 
paying  union  members. 

The  cordial  relationship  between  labor  and  government  deteri- 
orated as  Uruguay's  economic  growth  stalled  in  the  1930s.  The 
government  became  less  tolerant  of  unions.  The  unions,  in  turn, 


115 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


became  more  militant.  Communism  replaced  anarchism  as  the 
dominant  political  ideology  of  labor  leaders.  During  and  after  World 
War  II,  a  sometimes-violent  split  between  the  communist  and  non- 
communist  labor  elements  developed.  This  ideological  division 
prevented  the  labor  movement  from  speaking  with  one  voice  and 
limited  its  national  impact.  In  contrast  to  Argentina,  where  the 
Peronist  labor  movement  gained  great  political  power  during  the 
1950s,  the  labor  movement  in  Uruguay  remained  fragmented. 

An  important  question  for  the  labor  movement  in  Uruguay  has 
been  whether  public- sector  workers  have  the  right  to  strike.  Govern- 
ment employees — both  in  government  agencies  and  in  state 
enterprises — constituted  the  largest  group  of  salaried  workers  in 
the  country.  Thus,  the  government's  civil-service  wage  policy  set 
the  tone  for  wages  in  general.  The  government  also  participated 
directly  in  setting  private- sector  wage  policy,  along  with  unions 
and  owners,  through  the  tripartite  advisory  boards — the  wage 
councils — established  in  the  1940s.  When  public  employees  tried 
to  strike,  the  government  responded  harshly.  After  a  1952  strike 
in  the  petroleum  refinery,  for  example,  the  government  enacted 
a  mild  form  of  martial  law. 

The  confrontation  between  government  and  labor  became 
pronounced  in  the  late  1960s.  The  Communist  Party  of  Uruguay 
had  come  to  dominate  the  unions  after  the  Cuban  Revolution,  and 
the  unions'  objectives  were  as  much  political  as  they  were  economic. 
The  government  would  not  tolerate  labor's  leftist  political  program, 
especially  given  the  charged  atmosphere  of  the  period.  Nor  was 
the  government  in  a  position  to  fulfill  the  unions'  wage  demands; 
a  wage  and  price  freeze  was  imposed,  and  the  wage  councils  were 
abolished  in  June  1968.  Strikes  and  repression  became  frequent. 
The  confrontation  reached  its  climax  in  1973,  when  the  major  labor 
group,  the  National  Convention  of  Workers  (Convention  National 
de  Trabaj adores — CNT),  organized  a  general  strike  to  protest  the 
military  coup.  The  strike — the  labor  movement's  last  stand — 
dissolved  within  two  weeks.  The  military  regime  that  seized  pow- 
er in  1973  outlawed  the  CNT  and  arrested  its  leaders.  Union  ac- 
tivity ceased  for  almost  ten  years.  During  the  1970s,  12,000 
public-sector  workers  and  at  least  5,000  private- sector  workers  were 
dismissed  because  of  their  trade  union  or  political  activities. 

The  military  government  allowed  unions  to  resurface  in  1981 
through  the  Law  of  Professional  Associations.  Labor  organizations 
were  allowed  to  exist  on  three  levels:  by  individual  enterprise,  by 
occupational  category,  and  on  a  national  scale.  But  the  govern- 
ment took  pains  to  depoliticize  the  labor  movement.  The  secret 
ballot  was  to  be  used  on  the  individual  enterprise  level,  both  for 


116 


The  Economy 


election  of  leadership  and  for  strike  votes.  Leaders  of  previously 
outlawed  organizations  were  admonished  to  limit  their  political  ac- 
tivity. The  law's  timing  was  more  important  than  these  limitations, 
however.  As  economic  activity  slowed  during  the  1981-84  reces- 
sion, union  activity  was  minimal.  Nevertheless,  the  unions  did  play 
a  role  in  the  "democratic  counteroffensive"  that  led  to  the  resto- 
ration of  civilian  rule  in  the  mid-1980s.  Successful  general  strikes 
before  and  after  Sanguinetti's  election  helped  dissuade  the  mili- 
tary from  interfering  in  the  political  process. 

Relations  between  labor  and  government  were  delicate  during 
the  Sanguinetti  administration  (see  Political  Forces  and  Interest 
Groups,  ch.  4).  The  framework  for  relations  was  established  be- 
fore the  civilian  government  took  office,  during  the  1984-85  peri- 
od of  multiparty  consultations,  officially  called  the  National 
Conciliatory  Program  (Concertacion  Nacional  Programatica — 
Conapro).  A  working  group  recommended  that  the  incoming 
government  adopt  a  three-part  policy  toward  labor:  repeal  of  the 
legislation  that  restricted  union  activity  and  collective  bargaining; 
reinstatement  of  all  public-sector  employees  who  had  been  dismissed 
by  the  military  regime  for  their  union  activity;  and  restoration  of 
workers'  purchasing  power  through  periodic  wage  increases,  but 
in  a  manner  consistent  with  bringing  down  inflation.  The  new 
government  quickly  complied  with  the  first  two  recommendations, 
but  the  third  became  a  contentious  issue. 

Government  Policy 

The  Sanguinetti  administration  attempted  to  balance  the  clear 
need  to  increase  wages  with  the  equally  pressing  requirement  to 
control  inflation.  Thus,  the  government  immediately  declared  a 
wage  increase  in  March  1985  but  took  action  designed  to  control 
future  wage  increases.  The  tripartite  wage  councils  were  reestab- 
lished to  negotiate  wages  every  four  months  for  nonagricultural 
private- sector  employees.  The  councils  at  first  adopted  wage  in- 
creases that  were  slightly  higher  than  inflation,  so  that  real  wages 
at  the  end  of  1985  were  an  average  of  15  percent  higher  than  the 
year  before.  Nevertheless,  there  was  a  great  deal  of  labor  unrest: 
over  900  strikes  occurred  between  March  1985  and  September  1986. 
Workers  were  apparently  frustrated  by  the  slow  increases  in  real 
wages  and  anxious  to  express  their  displeasure  after  a  decade  of 
repression. 

After  1986  the  number  of  labor  disputes  decreased,  partly  be- 
cause of  the  government's  bargaining  strategy.  The  government 
tried  to  control  wage  increases  by  persuading  all  private- sector 
unions  to  sign  twenty-  to  twenty-four-month  contracts  under  which 


117 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


wages  would  be  adjusted  according  to  conditions  within  individual 
companies.  This  action  helped  lower  the  level  of  conflict  between 
labor  and  government,  but  it  may  have  made  the  task  of  restrain- 
ing wage  increases  more  difficult.  In  exchange  for  accepting  longer 
wage  contracts,  unions  demanded  that  workers  be  protected  against 
inflation  through  "indexation,"  or  automatic  wage  increases,  to 
compensate  for  inflation.  In  1986  about  one-third  of  all  workers 
were  covered  by  indexed  contracts;  by  the  end  of  1988,  over  half 
were.  When  Sanguinetti  proposed  in  mid- 1988  that  wage  increases 
be  held  to  90  percent  of  inflation,  instead  of  the  100  percent  or 
greater  that  unions  had  become  accustomed  to,  most  of  the  na- 
tion's work  force  joined  a  one-day  work  stoppage  in  protest.  The 
position  of  workers  was  understandable:  their  average  real  wage 
(purchasing  power)  remained  below  its  1968  level  (see  Blue-Collar 
Workers,  ch.  2).  The  wage  issue,  particularly  the  question  of 
whether  indexation  was  compatible  with  an  anti-inflationary  poli- 
cy, was  still  unresolved  when  Lacalle  took  office  in  1990. 

Agriculture 

Agriculture  played  a  central  role  in  Uruguay's  economy.  In  1988 
agricultural  activity  (including  fishing)  directly  generated  13  per- 
cent of  GDP  and  provided  over  half  the  value  of  exports.  Indirect- 
ly, agriculture  was  responsible  for  a  much  higher  proportion  of  both 
GDP  and  exports.  Many  of  Uruguay's  most  dynamic  manufac- 
turing enterprises — such  as  its  tanneries  and  textile  mills — depended 
on  agricultural  inputs.  The  close  relationship  between  agriculture 
and  manufacturing  had  a  significant  impact  on  Uruguay's  economic 
development.  For  example,  the  sluggish  performance  of  the  large 
livestock  sector  in  the  1980s  contributed  to  slow  overall  economic 
growth  (see  table  13,  Appendix). 

Agricultural  Stagnation 

A  troubling  issue  for  the  agricultural  sector  was  the  stagnation 
of  production  levels  over  several  decades.  Total  agricultural  produc- 
tion increased  at  an  average  rate  of  less  than  1  percent  per  year 
from  the  1950s  to  the  1980s.  In  1989  the  sector  continued  a  1  per- 
cent growth  rate.  This  low  growth  was  usually  attributed  to  a  lack 
of  technologically  advanced  production  methods,  but  that  descrip- 
tion applied  mainly  to  the  large  livestock  sector.  Ranchers  continued 
to  rely  on  extensive  production  methods.  By  contrast,  many  crop 
and  citrus  farmers  had  adopted  more  advanced  technology,  using 
tractors,  fertilizers,  and  pesticides.  Similarly,  poultry  producers  re- 
lied on  advanced  techniques,  and  some  dairy  farmers  fertilized  their 
pastures. 


118 


The  Economy 


Alternative  explanations  of  the  agricultural  sector's  poor  per- 
formance take  note  of  the  overall  characteristics  of  Uruguay's  econ- 
omy. First,  the  small  size  of  the  internal  market  had  forced  most 
agricultural  producers  to  be  exporters.  Agricultural  products  had 
become  an  important  source  of  foreign  exchange,  but  fluctuations 
in  world  prices  and  markets  buffeted  Uruguay's  externally  oriented 
agricultural  sector.  For  example,  wool  prices  fell  when  synthetic 
fabrics  were  developed.  Additionally,  the  market  for  Uruguayan 
beef  contracted  when  the  European  Community  began  subsidiz- 
ing its  beef  producers  in  the  1980s. 

A  second  reason  for  the  lack  of  agricultural  growth  may  have 
been  the  inconsistency  of  government  policy.  During  the  protec- 
tionist import-substitution  industrialization  phase  in  the  1950s,  the 
government  held  agricultural  prices  down  in  order  to  lower  indus- 
trial labor  costs.  This  discouraged  both  agricultural  production  and 
investment.  During  the  1960s,  the  government  reversed  this  pric- 
ing policy  when  it  encouraged  the  export  of  certain  agricultural 
products  (poultry,  dairy,  and  citrus  products)  through  subsidies 
and  other  incentives.  However,  this  export  policy  was  itself  reversed 
in  the  1970s,  in  keeping  with  the  military  government's  effort  to 
open  the  economy  to  foreign  competition.  The  abrupt  withdrawal 
of  subsidies  made  the  production  of  several  products  unprofitable. 
With  government  policy  toward  it  fluctuating  in  this  manner, 
agriculture  in  Uruguay  was  on  uncertain  ground,  and  potential 
investors  remained  wary.  Aided  by  a  recovery  in  the  livestock  sec- 
tor, however,  agricultural  output  increased  by  an  estimated  3.5 
percent  in  1990. 

Land  Use  and  Tenure 

The  general  characteristics  of  Uruguay's  land  area  helped  de- 
termine the  pattern  of  land  use.  The  countryside  is  devoid  of 
mountains — in  contrast  to  most  other  Latin  American  nations — 
and  is  only  2  to  3  percent  forested.  Over  80  percent  of  the  land 
can  be  used  for  some  kind  of  agriculture.  The  natural  grasslands 
for  which  Uruguay  is  famous  lend  themselves  to  the  predominant 
agricultural  activity:  livestock  production. 

Although  the  land  and  temperate  climate  facilitated  livestock 
production,  the  limited  fertility  of  the  soil  hindered  the  produc- 
tion of  crops.  Livestock  ranches  covered  three-quarters  of  the  to- 
tal land,  especially  in  the  departments  of  Artigas,  Cerro  Largo, 
Durazno,  Flores,  Lavalleja,  Maldonado,  Paysandu,  Rivera,  Rocha, 
Salto,  and  Tacuarembo  (see  fig.  1).  The  most  productive  wheat  - 
and  cereal-farming  area  was  the  southwest  (Colonia,  Rio  Negro, 
and  Soriano  departments);  most  of  the  rice  was  produced  in  the 


119 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

east  (Treinta  y  Tres  Department);  and  fruits,  vegetables,  and  wine 
were  produced  in  the  departments  of  Canelones,  Florida,  and  San 
Jose. 

Uruguay  was  no  exception  to  the  Latin  American  pattern  of  con- 
centrated landownership,  but  its  small  population  had  kept  land 
distribution  from  becoming  a  major  political  issue.  Agricultural 
enterprises  could  be  roughly  divided  into  two  types,  whose  charac- 
teristics in  the  mid-1980s  reflected  the  concentration  of  landowner- 
ship  and  helped  explain  Uruguay's  urban  tendencies.  The  first  type, 
family-operated  (owned  or  rented)  farms  and  ranches,  made  up 
85  percent  of  agricultural  enterprises  in  the  country,  employed  68 
percent  of  rural  workers,  and  produced  45  percent  of  all  agricul- 
tural output.  But  this  type  of  enterprise  controlled  only  25  percent 
of  agricultural  land  (farming  and  livestock).  The  second  type,  larger 
commercial  enterprises,  controlled  75  percent  of  the  land,  employed 
32  percent  of  rural  labor,  and  produced  55  percent  of  output.  These 
statistics  indicate  that  smaller  enterprises  made  more  productive 
use  of  the  land.  However,  the  fact  that  such  family-operated  farms 
and  ranches  employed  mostly  family  members  rather  than  salar- 
ied workers  tended  to  limit  the  development  of  the  rural  econo- 
my. The  larger  enterprises,  by  contrast,  were  mostiy  extensive 
livestock  ranches  that  had  little  need  of  hired  labor.  As  this  second 
type  of  enterprise  became  more  prevalent  throughout  the  twen- 
tieth century,  landownership  became  more  concentrated,  and  the 
population  of  the  countryside  declined. 

Agricultural  production  employed  only  about  1 5  percent  of  Uru- 
guay's  labor  force  in  the  late  1980s.  The  agricultural  work  force 
declined  steadily  as  the  number  of  small  agricultural  enterprises 
diminished.  There  were  87,000  farms  and  ranches  in  1961,  77,000 
in  1970,  and  only  57,000  in  1986.  The  importance  of  family- 
operated  establishments  is  clearly  seen  in  rural  labor  statistics.  In 
1980  two-thirds  of  the  160,000-person  agricultural  labor  force  was 
made  up  of  landowners  or  their  relatives;  only  57,000  workers  were 
wage  earners.  Not  surprisingly,  the  labor  movement  had  little  im- 
pact on  rural  workers,  although  both  the  rice  workers  and  the  dairy7 
workers  were  organized  into  unions. 

Livestock  Ranching 

Uruguay's  livestock  herds  did  not  expand  appreciably  after  1930. 
In  1908  there  were  8  million  catde  and  26  million  sheep  in  the  coun- 
try. In  1981  the  number  of  cattle  peaked  at  11  million,  while  the 
number  of  sheep  had  declined  to  20  million.  Because  the  land  area 
dedicated  to  livestock  raising  has  not  changed  significantly,  these 
figures  illustrated  the  lack  of  progress  in  the  sector.  The  single 


120 


Herding  cattle  in  Treinta  y  Tres 
Department 
Courtesy  Inter-American 
Development  Bank 


Inspecting  a  beef  carcass 
in  Melo 

Courtesy  Inter-American 
Development  Bank 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

largest  investment  in  cattle  herds  was  complete  by  1930,  when 
Herefords  were  substituted  for  the  original  mixed  breeds.  Exten- 
sive ranching  methods  facilitated  livestock  raising  because  little  in- 
vestment was  required.  But  these  methods  also  limited  the  carrying 
capacity  of  the  land  and  the  size  of  the  stock.  By  the  1970s,  it  took 
twenty-six  Uruguayan  cattle  to  yield  one  ton  of  beef,  compared 
with  about  eighteen  in  Argentina  and  about  thirteen  in  the  Unit- 
ed States  or  Western  Europe.  The  production  of  wool  and  mutton 
per  head  of  sheep  was  also  low:  3.5  kilograms  of  wool  per  head, 
compared  with  over  5  kilograms  per  head  in  Australia  or  Argentina. 
In  addition,  both  cattle  and  sheep  herds  were  subject  to  losses  be- 
cause of  limited  efforts  to  prevent  disease. 

The  vulnerability  of  the  range-fed  livestock  herds  was  further 
demonstrated  in  the  late  1980s  when  Uruguay  experienced  a  se- 
vere drought.  Millions  of  animals  died  or  had  to  be  slaughtered 
prematurely.  The  drought  lasted  longest  in  the  center  of  the  coun- 
try, where  most  of  the  largest  cattle  ranches  were  located  (the  depart- 
ments of  Cerro  Largo,  Durazno,  and  Tacuarembo).  The  leading 
sheep-ranching  departments  in  the  northwest  (Artigas  and  Salto) 
were  not  as  severely  affected. 

Raising  sheep  for  wool  in  Uruguay  became  less  profitable  dur- 
ing the  1960s.  There  was  increasing  worldwide  competition  from 
petroleum-based  synthetic  fibers.  After  the  oil  price  increase  in  1973, 
however,  wool  was  once  again  in  favor.  Production  surged  from 
about  61,000  tons  per  year  in  the  mid-1970s  to  87,000  tons  in  1986. 
Wool  surpassed  beef  as  Uruguay's  most  valuable  export  in  the  early 
1980s.  It  also  supplied  the  growing  woolen  textile  and  apparel  in- 
dustry, which  earned  additional  foreign  exchange. 

Sheep,  whose  stock  increased  to  almost  26  million  by  1989,  were 
also  raised  for  lamb  and  mutton.  The  potential  for  Uruguay's  ex- 
port of  sheep  meat  in  1989  was  about  3  million  head,  as  compared 
with  annual  exports  of  about  2  million  head  in  the  early  1980s. 
However,  a  severe  drought  in  the  first  half  of  1989  reduced  the 
performance  of  this  subsector  by  about  10  percent  during  that 
period. 

Rising  world  beef  prices  stimulated  the  Uruguayan  cattle  industry 
in  the  late  1970s.  At  first,  rising  prices  increased  the  profitability 
of  cattle  ranching  but  ultimately  led  to  considerable  instability  in 
the  sector.  When  many  ranchers  expanded  their  herds  after  the 
1978-79  beef  price  increases,  the  price  of  pastureland  grew  almost 
tenfold.  Because  real  interest  rates  were  low  or  negative,  ranchers 
were  willing  to  borrow  heavily  to  increase  their  landholdings.  But 
beef  prices  soon  leveled  off,  and  many  ranchers  were  left  with  large, 
unpayable  debts.  Land  prices  fell  sharply;  banks  could  not  cover 


122 


The  Economy 


their  loans  even  by  foreclosing.  As  the  bank  crisis  mounted,  the 
Central  Bank  stepped  in  to  provide  refinancing  in  United  States 
dollar-denominated  loans.  Most  ranchers  avoided  bankruptcy  but 
had  to  slaughter  record  numbers  of  cattle  to  service  their  debts. 
Many  ranchers  took  the  opportunity  to  switch  to  sheep  ranching 
because  wool  appeared  to  face  more  stable  world  demand.  Thus, 
Uruguay's  cattle  herds  declined  by  20  percent  from  1981  to  1984. 

Cattle  ranchers  rebuilt  their  herds  during  the  latter  half  of  the 
1980s  but  were  hindered  by  limited  credit  and  severe  drought. 
Damage  from  the  prolonged  drought  had  reached  alarming  propor- 
tions by  the  end  of  1989,  when  the  cattle  stock  was  down  to  9.4 
million  head.  The  number  of  cattle  fell  by  738,000  head  between 
June  1988  and  June  1989,  the  largest  annual  drop  in  fifteen  years. 
About  2  percent  of  the  total  had  died,  and  the  rest  had  been  killed 
and  sold  (50  percent  more  than  usual).  In  the  July- November  1989 
period,  the  beef  cattle  herd  was  depleted  by  an  additional  622,000 
head.  The  increased  slaughter  rates  allowed  meat-packing  plants 
to  pay  less  for  beef,  decreasing  ranchers'  profits. 

The  continuing  difficulty  in  the  sector  prompted  the  government 
to  launch  Operation  Manufacture  in  March  1989.  The  program 
eased  the  ranchers'  financial  burden  by  extending  them  a  special 
line  of  credit,  lowering  their  tax  rate  by  20  percent,  and  providing 
for  case-by-case  assistance.  The  government  also  announced  the 
opening  of  a  line  of  credit  with  terms  of  up  to  eight  years  for  herd 
replacement.  Sheep  ranchers,  who  suffered  fewer  losses  from  the 
drought,  were  not  eligible  for  these  government  programs. 

The  dairy  industry,  based  in  the  departments  near  Montevideo, 
expanded  considerably  in  the  1980s.  Milk  production  increased 
from  400,000  tons  in  1979  to  635,000  tons  in  1987.  Even  though 
many  dairy  farmers  still  relied  on  natural  pastures,  limiting  the 
milk  output  per  cow,  Uruguay  was  more  than  self-sufficient  in  dairy 
products  and  exported  to  other  Latin  American  countries.  Most 
domestic  milk  processing  and  marketing  was  controlled  by  the  Na- 
tional Dairy  Products  Cooperative,  which  distributed  dairy  products 
throughout  the  country. 

Crop  Production 

Crop  production  in  Uruguay  has  never  been  as  important  as  live- 
stock raising.  Only  about  8  percent  of  the  land  area  was  dedicated 
to  growing  crops  in  the  mid-1980s,  compared  with  75  percent  dedi- 
cated to  livestock.  The  amount  of  land  under  cultivation  has  varied 
according  to  the  world  price  of  livestock  products.  When  beef  prices 
have  declined,  for  example,  ranchers  have  planted  wheat  or  corn. 
Rising  livestock  prices  in  the  1980s  resulted  in  a  considerable 


123 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


decrease  in  the  area  dedicated  to  most  crops.  Because  crop  produc- 
tion had  gradually  become  more  efficient  through  mechanization, 
however,  crop  yields  did  not  necessarily  decline. 

Although  crop  yields  per  hectare  had  generally  increased,  ero- 
sion of  the  thin  topsoil  layer  became  a  significant  problem  in  Uru- 
guay during  the  1980s.  It  was  estimated  that  30  percent  of  all  arable 
areas  had  been  adversely  affected.  The  ill  effects  were  most  seri- 
ous in  areas  that  had  been  under  continuous  cultivation  for  long 
periods. 

Rice  surpassed  wheat  as  Uruguay's  most  significant  crop  in  the 
1980s.  In  contrast  to  the  general  downward  trend  in  farmed  land 
area,  the  land  dedicated  to  rice  production  increased  from  55,000 
hectares  in  1980  to  81,000  hectares  in  1988.  Over  this  same  peri- 
od, production  rose  from  228,000  tons  to  381,000  tons,  a  67  per- 
cent increase.  Only  about  40,000  tons  were  consumed  domestically; 
most  of  the  rice  was  exported.  The  preferred  farming  system  for 
rice  production  was  closely  connected  to  livestock  raising.  Rice  was 
grown  for  two  years;  then  the  land  was  sown  as  pasture  for  four 
or  five  years  to  renew  the  fields  and  provide  grazing  for  cattle.  The 
most  common  variety  produced  was  the  American  "Blue  Belle" 
type.  The  drought  that  gripped  Uruguay  in  1988-89  caused  rice 
producers  to  lose  an  estimated  6  percent  of  their  crop,  worth  about 
US$2.4  million.  The  hardest  hit  areas  were  in  the  north,  in  the 
departments  of  Artigas,  Rivera,  and  Tacuarembo. 

Wheat  production  and  hectarage  both  declined  during  most  of 
the  1980s.  This  decline  reflected  the  increasing  land  area  dedicat- 
ed to  livestock  production  and  the  fact  that  Uruguayan  wheat 
producers  could  not  effectively  compete  with  wheat  producers  in 
other  countries.  International  competition  became  more  important 
after  the  government  discontinued  its  subsidies  for  wheat  farmers 
during  the  economic  liberalization  of  the  1970s.  Uruguay  was  no 
longer  self-sufficient  in  wheat  production  by  the  mid-1980s,  when 
about  80,000  tons  per  year  were  imported.  Wheat  farming  was 
largely  mechanized  by  the  1980s,  but  advanced  tractor  equipment 
acted  mainly  to  reduce  the  labor  requirement  on  farms,  rather  than 
leading  to  huge  production  increases.  Most  farmers  made  only 
limited  use  of  pesticides  and  fertilizers.  Thus,  wheat  production 
per  hectare  was  below  that  of  most  other  countries.  Nevertheless, 
the  area  dedicated  to  wheat  farming  rose  in  1989,  and  production 
was  expected  to  begin  increasing  again.  Indeed,  wheat  production 
grew  to  414,000  tons  in  1988. 

Corn  production  stagnated  during  the  1980-88  period.  Like 
wheat  farmers,  corn  farmers  were  adversely  affected  by  the  govern- 
ment's freeing  of  agricultural  prices  in  the  late  1970s.  Unlike  wheat, 


124 


The  Economy 


however,  corn  was  not  an  important  commercial  crop;  farmers  used 
it  primarily  to  feed  their  animals.  No  longer  self- sufficient,  Uru- 
guay imported  almost  US$2  million  worth  of  corn  in  1988.  Some 
farmers  had  substituted  sorghum  cultivation  for  corn  because  it 
provided  roughly  the  same  nutrition  as  corn  but  better  withstood 
drought  conditions. 

Other  crops  produced  in  Uruguay  in  the  1980s  included  barley, 
soybeans,  oats,  sunflowers,  peanuts,  sugarcane,  potatoes,  flax,  and 
cotton.  Barley,  soybeans,  and  sunflowers  were  produced  mainly 
for  export;  the  other  crops  were  produced  on  only  a  small  scale 
for  the  domestic  market.  Production  of  sugar  was  uneconomical, 
relying  on  a  large  government  subsidy.  Uruguay  imported  cotton 
(US$6.6  million  in  1988)  for  its  textile  industry. 

Citrus  farming  was  a  bright  spot  on  the  agricultural  horizon  in 
the  1980s.  Citrus  and  produce  farms  were  originally  established 
around  Montevideo  to  supply  the  city  with  fruits  and  vegetables. 
During  the  1980s,  these  farms  expanded,  allowing  Uruguay  to  be- 
come a  net  exporter  of  citrus  fruit  (oranges,  lemons,  and  grapefruit). 
The  exported  value  increased  from  US$5  million  in  1980  to  US$21 
million  in  1986.  One  large-scale  citrus  plantation  added  packing 
facilities  and  a  juice-and-oil  plant,  with  at  least  half  of  its  produc- 
tion intended  for  export.  The  government  encouraged  such  diver- 
sification of  agriculture. 

Fishing 

Uruguay  first  began  to  develop  a  fishing  industry  in  the  1970s. 
Previously,  fishermen  from  other  countries  had  taken  advantage 
of  the  rich  resources  off  Uruguay's  coast,  but  there  was  no  con- 
certed national  fishing  effort.  The  military  government  enacted  the 
five-year  National  Fishing  Development  Plan  in  1974  as  part  of 
its  attempt  to  develop  new  economic  activities  with  export  poten- 
tial. Under  the  plan,  administered  by  the  government's  National 
Fishing  Institute,  fishing  expanded  markedly.  By  the  late  1980s, 
there  were  over  700  fishing  vessels  in  the  fishing  fleet,  compared 
with  only  300  in  1974.  Furthermore,  the  number  of  large  ocean- 
going vessels  increased  from  five  to  seventy  during  this  period. 
Oceangoing  vessels  held  more  fish  and  allowed  longer  voyages  to 
distant  waters.  The  latter  capability  became  important  after  most 
nations  (including  Uruguay  and  neighboring  Argentina)  extend- 
ed their  exclusive  economic  zone  from  3  to  200  miles  in  the 
mid-1970s,  restricting  access  to  many  coastal  fisheries.  As  the  fishing 
fleet  expanded,  port  facilities  were  improved.  The  port  facilities 
of  Montevideo,  Piriapolis,  and  Punta  del  Este  were  modernized, 
and  an  entirely  new  port  was  constructed  at  La  Paloma. 


125 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

The  intensified  fishing  effort  produced  favorable  results;  the  catch 
grew  from  16,000  tons  in  1974  to  144,000  tons  in  1981,  remaining 
at  about  140,000  tons  per  year  in  the  late  1980s.  Not  all  aspects 
of  the  government's  plan  were  successful,  however.  It  called  for 
sizable  catches  of  species  that  could  be  processed  (canned)  for  ex- 
port, such  as  tuna  and  sardines.  As  of  1987,  however,  fishermen 
were  only  catching  a  few  hundred  tons  of  tuna  per  year,  not  enough 
to  supply  a  cannery.  The  sardine  catch  was  also  very  small. 
Although  those  two  species  proved  difficult  to  catch,  Uruguay's 
fishermen  had  success  catching  Argentine  hake,  Atlantic  croaker, 
and  striped  weakfish.  The  fish-processing  industry  also  developed 
as  the  catch  increased.  Processing  capacity  in  the  late  1980s  was 
about  250,000  tons,  considerably  above  the  estimated  annual  catch 
of  200,000  tons  for  all  kinds  of  fish,  except  the  anchovy. 

About  half  of  Uruguay's  catch  was  exported  during  the  late 
1980s,  in  line  with  the  government's  goal  of  increasing  nontradi- 
tional  exports.  Argentine  hake  (a  whitefish  similar  to  cod)  was  the 
leading  export.  In  1988,  however,  Uruguayan  processing  compa- 
nies reported  that  world  prices  for  Argentine  hake  had  fallen  be- 
low production  costs  because  of  the  competition  from  cod  suppliers. 
Although  prices  later  recovered,  many  companies  began  to  process 
and  export  alternative  species,  such  as  anchovy,  mullet,  and  blue- 
fish.  The  industry's  exports  reached  US$81  million  in  1987,  as  com- 
pared with  US$65  million  in  1986  and  US$1.2  million  in  1974. 
The  United  States  imported  30  percent  of  Uruguay's  fish;  Brazil 
imported  23  percent;  and  Japan,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany 
(West  Germany),  Saudi  Arabia,  and  Israel  each  imported  between 
4  and  6  percent. 

In  1990  an  important  issue  for  the  Lacalle  administration  was 
Uruguay's  access  to  the  fisheries  of  the  South  Atlantic  near  An- 
tarctica, as  well  as  to  fishery  resources  in  Argentina's  coastal  waters. 
Lacalle  told  Vision  magazine  in  early  1990  that  he  strongly  sup- 
ported the  idea  of  an  international  conference,  under  the  auspices 
of  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United  Nations, 
to  regulate  fishing  in  the  South  Atlantic. 

Forestry 

In  the  1980s,  estimates  of  Uruguay's  natural  forest  ranged  from 
4,000  to  6,000  square  kilometers  of  mostly  small  trees  of  limited 
or  no  industrial  use;  planted  forest  estimates  ranged  from  120,000 
hectares  to  137,000  hectares  of  pine  and  eucalyptus.  There  were 
an  additional  70,000  hectares  of  palm,  poplar,  salix  (a  genus  of 
shrubs  and  trees),  and  other  species.  Sawmills  were  inefficient  and 
small,  with  a  capacity  of  fewer  than  thirty  cubic  meters  a  day.  Of 


126 


Harvesting  oranges  near  Paysandu 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 

the  220,000  cubic  meters  of  sawn  wood  consumed  per  year,  Uru- 
guay imported  about  66,000.  Following  the  recovery  of  the  con- 
struction industry  from  a  recession  in  1987,  demand  for  sawn  wood 
was  increasing  at  a  rate  of  about  2.5  percent  per  year  in  the  late 
1980s.  Domestic  use  of  firewood  was  important,  increasing  from 
about  1.4  million  cubic  meters  in  the  mid-1970s  to  2.8  million  cu- 
bic meters  in  the  mid-1980s.  Firewood  demand  was  growing  at  5 
percent  a  year  in  the  late  1980s.  A  number  of  local  industries  con- 
verted to  firewood  from  fuel  oil  for  energy  needs,  resulting  in  sig- 
nificant savings. 

Industry 

Uruguay's  industries,  including  construction,  mining,  and  ener- 
gy, generated  33  percent  of  GDP  in  1988.  These  industries  un- 
derwent most  of  their  development  behind  high  tariff  barriers  in 
the  1950s.  As  a  consequence,  the  industrial  sector  was  geared  mosdy 
to  the  domestic  market.  The  small  size  of  the  internal  market  limited 
the  growth  of  manufacturing  and  prevented  many  industries  from 
achieving  economies  of  scale.  In  addition,  the  substantial  level  of 
protection  meant  that  Uruguayan  consumers  paid  high  prices  for 
domestically  produced  goods,  which  faced  no  international  com- 
petition. During  the  1970s  and  1980s,  Uruguay's  protectionist 


127 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

apparatus  was  partially  dismantled,  and  industry  began  adjusting 
to  the  world  market. 

Background  of  Industrial  Development 

In  the  early  twentieth  century,  Montevideo  was  home  to  many 
small  artisanal  workshops.  These  cottage  industries  were  already 
protected  by  tariff  rates  of  about  30  percent  on  most  products.  Rapid 
industrial  growth  did  not  occur  until  the  1930s,  when  the  economic 
crisis  caused  by  the  Great  Depression  forced  Uruguay,  like  other 
nations,  to  become  more  self-sufficient.  Industry  accounted  for  only 
12  percent  of  GDP  in  1930  but  increased  to  22  percent  by  1955. 
The  most  dynamic  growth  occurred  after  World  War  II.  During 
the  presidency  of  "industrial  populist"  Luis  BatUe  Berres  (1947-51), 
the  government  encouraged  the  development  of  industry  through 
several  policies:  multiple  exchange  rates  were  introduced  to  allow 
manufacturers  to  import  essential  machinery  at  subsidized  rates; 
import  tariffs  on  competing  goods  were  raised  to  prohibitive  lev- 
els; and  urban  wage  increases  stimulated  domestic  demand  (see 
Neo-Batllism,  1947-51,  ch.  1).  Industrial  output  doubled  during 
the  decade  following  World  War  II.  The  timing  of  the  expansion 
was  favorable.  For  part  of  the  period,  wool  exporters  earned  record 
profits  because  cold-weather  uniforms  were  needed  for  the  Korean 
War.  A  share  of  those  profits  financed  the  industrial  sector's  im- 
ports of  capital  equipment. 

The  industrial  boom  was  short-lived,  however.  Manufacturing 
output  increased  by  only  14  percent  between  the  mid-1950s  and 
1970.  For  the  industries  geared  to  the  internal  market,  the  main 
problem  was  the  small  size  of  that  market.  The  food-processing 
and  textile  companies,  however,  produced  goods  for  export  as  well 
as  for  internal  consumption.  For  these  enterprises,  the  stagnation 
of  the  agricultural  sector  was  a  serious  blow.  As  M.H.J.  Finch  ar- 
gues in  his  landmark  study,  A  Political  Economy  of  Uruguay  since  1870, 
the  lagging  supply  of  agricultural  inputs  limited  manufacturing  out- 
put. The  process  of  economic  decline  was  circular:  the  decrease 
in  exports  meant  lower  domestic  income  and  hence  lower  domes- 
tic demand  for  other  manufactured  products.  Additional  factors 
also  contributed  to  the  slowdown,  such  as  the  bias  against  exports, 
which  was  the  result  of  an  overvalued  currency.  In  sum,  import- 
substitution  industrialization  allowed  manufacturing  to  increase, 
but  only  to  a  limited  extent.  More  important,  the  policy  insulated 
the  economy  and  eroded  much  of  Uruguay's  capacity  to  export. 

The  military  government  that  assumed  power  in  1973  attempt- 
ed to  revitalize  the  economy  by  reemphasizing  exports.  The  govern- 
ment dismantled  part  of  the  protectionist  structure  surrounding 


128 


The  Economy 


industry,  lowered  trade  taxes,  and  created  incentives  for  nontradi- 
tional  exports.  The  results  were  at  first  dramatic.  Industry  grew 
at  a  rate  of  about  6  percent  per  year  from  1974  to  1980.  The  most 
dynamic  manufacturing  growth  involved  relatively  sophisticated 
goods:  electrical  appliances,  transport  equipment,  textiles,  paper, 
and  nonmetallic  minerals.  Manufacturers  invested  in  new  technol- 
ogy, and  labor  productivity  increased  rapidly.  Argentina  and  Brazil 
became  important  export  markets  for  manufacturers,  proving  that 
Uruguayan  industry  could  compete  outside  of  its  own  borders. 

The  expansion  came  to  an  abrupt  halt  in  1981,  largely  because 
of  factors  beyond  industry's  control.  Macroeconomic  instability — in 
part  related  to  developments  in  the  export  markets  of  Argentina 
and  Brazil — pitched  the  entire  Uruguayan  economy  into  recession. 
The  reversal  was  particularly  painful  in  the  industrial  sector  be- 
cause manufacturers  had  borrowed  heavily  for  investments  and  were 
overindebted  as  the  recession  began.  Financial  costs  actually  ex- 
ceeded labor  costs  for  many  manufacturing  firms.  Thus,  lower  real 
wages  brought  on  by  the  recession  were  not  enough  to  restore  the 
firms'  competitiveness.  In  1983-84  the  central  government  stepped 
in  and  took  over  part  of  the  industrial  sector's  debt.  This  probably 
prevented  widespread  bankruptcies  but  also  increased  the  public 
sector's  financial  burden.  The  lingering  indebtedness  of  private 
firms  was  a  major  issue  for  the  Sanguinetti  government. 

Autonomous  Entities 

The  performance  of  the  autonomous  entities  (autonomous  agen- 
cies or  state  enterprises;  see  Glossary),  which  played  a  central  role 
in  Uruguay's  economic  development,  was  an  even  greater  issue. 
Most  of  the  autonomous  entities  were  industrial  or  utility  compa- 
nies; others  were  service  related  (see  table  14,  Appendix).  The  two 
largest  autonomous  entities  were  also  the  two  largest  companies 
in  Uruguay:  the  National  Administration  of  Fuels,  Alcohol,  and 
Portland  Cement  (Administracion  Nacional  de  Combustibles,  Al- 
cohol, y  Portland — ANCAP)  and  the  National  Administration  for 
the  Generation  and  Transmission  of  Electricity  (Administracion 
Nacional  de  Usinas  y  Transmisiones  Electricas — UTE).  In  1988 
ANCAP,  whose  primary  activity  was  refining  and  distributing  im- 
ported crude  oil,  grossed  US$470  million,  had  profits  of  US$12 
million,  and  employed  6,700  workers;  UTE  grossed  US$285  mil- 
lion, had  profits  of  US$12  million,  and  employed  almost  12,000 
workers.  (Based  on  their  1988  gross  earnings,  ANCAP  and  UTE 
were  the  113th  and  242d  largest  companies  in  Latin  America, 
respectively.)  Other  important  autonomous  entities  (and  monop- 
olies) included  the  National  Administration  of  Ports  (Administracion 


129 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


National  de  Puertos — ANP;  another  name  for  the  Montevideo  Port 
Authority),  the  National  Telecommunications  Administration  (Ad- 
ministration National  de  Telecomunicaciones — ANTEL),  and  the 
State  Railways  Administration  (Administration  de  los  Ferrocarri- 
les  del  Estado— AFE). 

The  Sanguinetti  government's  policy  toward  the  state  enterprises 
had  two  aspects.  First,  the  government  planned  to  invest  US$1  bil- 
lion in  public-sector  projects  during  the  1987-89  period,  raising 
government  investment  from  2.9  percent  of  GDP  in  1986  to  5  per- 
cent of  GDP  in  1987-89.  This  target  was  not  met,  however.  Pub- 
lic investment  in  1987  and  1988  increased  only  to  3.1  percent  and 
3.4  percent  of  GDP,  respectively,  because  of  the  need  to  restrain 
spending.  Second,  the  government  planned  to  improve  the  fiscal 
health  of  the  state  enterprises,  many  of  which  were  running  deficits. 
A  combination  of  utility  rate  increases  and  spending  cuts  (but  no 
significant  cuts  in  employment)  made  most  state  enterprises  profita- 
ble by  the  late  1980s,  easing  the  public-sector  deficit  slightly. 

Private  Firms 

The  two  largest  subsectors  within  manufacturing,  both  by  out- 
put and  by  employment,  depended  on  agricultural  inputs.  Food 
and  beverage  companies,  which  accounted  for  about  30  percent 
of  the  value  of  industrial  output  in  1987,  included  meat  packers, 
soft  drink  companies,  and  wineries  (see  table  15,  Appendix).  These 
companies  exported  about  one-third  of  their  output.  A  new  entry 
into  the  food-processing  industry  was  the  Azucitrus  citrus  plant 
in  Paysandu,  which  opened  in  mid- 1988.  The  textile  and  apparel 
industry,  accounting  for  about  20  percent  of  manufacturing  out- 
put, depended  on  supplies  of  both  wool  and  leather  for  jackets  and 
footwear.  The  capacity  to  export  was  an  important  asset,  allowing 
firms  to  withstand  fluctuations  in  domestic  demand.  For  example, 
the  textile  industry's  sales  to  the  domestic  market  decreased  23  per- 
cent in  1988,  compared  with  1987,  but  its  exports  increased  36  per- 
cent during  the  same  period.  Other  important  manufactured  goods 
included  chemicals,  most  of  which  were  exported;  transportation 
goods,  including  a  few  thousand  automobiles  and  trucks  that  were 
assembled  each  year;  and  metal  products. 

Construction 

Activity  in  the  construction  industry  fluctuated  dramatically  dur- 
ing the  1980s,  appearing  to  be  markedly  affected  by  trends  in  GDP 
growth  or  contraction,  but  with  a  one-  or  two-year  lag.  One  index 
of  such  activity,  the  quantity  of  private  structures  built,  went  from 
about  2.1  million  square  meters  per  year  in  1980-81  (when  the 


130 


The  Economy 


recession  was  beginning)  to  500,000  square  meters  per  year  in 
1985-86  (after  the  recession  had  ended).  In  the  late  1980s,  con- 
struction partially  recovered.  The  industry  achieved  a  4  percent 
growth  in  1988  because  of  a  construction  boom  in  Maldonado  and 
Punta  del  Este,  and  it  grew  11.7  percent  in  1989.  Continued  moder- 
ate growth  was  expected  because  of  infrastructure  projects  such  as 
the  modernization  of  ports  and  highways,  to  be  financed  by  inter- 
national organizations.  An  offsetting  factor,  however,  was  the 
government's  need  to  reduce  expenditures. 

Mining 

Mining  has  never  played  an  important  role  in  Uruguay's  econ- 
omy. However,  Uruguay  has  exported  granite  and  marble.  In  ad- 
dition, semiprecious  stones  have  been  found  in  quantity.  Investment 
in  mining  activities  was  expected  to  reach  at  least  US$200  million 
during  the  first  half  of  the  1990s.  After  Uruguay's  General  Assembly 
passed  legislation  allowing  foreign  investment  in  mining,  two  com- 
panies, Canada's  Bond  International  Gold  and  Brazil's  Minera- 
cao  e  Participacao  (Mining  Copartnership),  announced  plans  to 
search  for  gold,  silver,  and  other  metals.  Bond  International  Gold 
was  given  exclusive  rights  to  develop  the  Mahoma  gold  mine,  ex- 
pected to  produce  more  than  900  kilograms  per  year.  Part  of  the 
project  was  to  be  financed  through  a  debt-for-equity  conversion 
program.  The  National  Mining  and  Geology  Institute  indicated 
that  at  least  fourteen  other  areas  in  the- country  might  contain 
deposits  of  precious  or  base  metals. 

Energy 

Hydroelectricity  and  imported  petroleum  were  the  primary 
sources  of  energy  in  Uruguay.  During  the  1980s,  the  nation  reduced 
its  dependence  on  imported  crude  oil  and  increased  its  hydroelec- 
tric capacity.  At  the  beginning  of  the  decade,  three-fourths  of  Uru- 
guay's energy  came  from  imported  oil;  by  1987  less  than  half  did. 
This  trend  toward  hydroelectric  power  was  interrupted  during  1988 
and  1989  because  of  a  severe  drought.  Oil -burning  power  stations 
had  to  be  brought  on-line  temporarily,  increasing  energy  costs.  In 
addition,  rotating  power  outages  were  instituted  in  Montevideo 
and  other  cities.  Partly  because  of  such  conservation  measures,  total 
consumption  of  energy  actually  decreased  during  the  late  1980s. 
Real  growth  in  the  utilities  sector  declined  by  12.2  percent  in  1989. 

The  single  largest  source  of  hydroelectricity  was  the  Salto  Grande 
Dam  on  the  Rio  Uruguay,  built  and  operated  in  cooperation  with 
Argentina.  The  US$1  billion  dam  was  completed  in  1982  and  sup- 
plied 1.8  million  megawatt-hours  of  energy  to  Uruguay  in  1987 


131 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

(before  the  drought),  or  40  percent  of  Uruguay's  electricity.  In  1989 
the  huge  project  was  reported  to  be  facing  serious  financial  difficul- 
ties. The  Uruguayan  and  Argentine  state-owned  power  compa- 
nies were  US$45  million  and  US$250  million  behind  in  payments, 
respectively,  to  banks  and  foreign  creditors,  and  absorption  of  the 
debts  by  the  two  nations'  central  banks  was  expected. 

Three  other  hydroelectric  power  sources  were  located  on  the  Rio 
Negro.  Of  these,  the  El  Palmar  Dam  (located  at  Palmar),  built 
and  operated  jointly  with  Brazil,  was  the  largest  and  newest  (in 
full  operation  since  1983);  in  1988  it  had  a  capacity  of  330  mega- 
watts. The  Baygorria  Dam  and  the  Gabriel  Terra  Dam  (the  latter 
in  operation  since  1948)  had  a  capacity  of  108  megawatts  and  128 
megawatts,  respectively,  in  1988. 

The  Sanguinetti  administration's  policy  was  to  improve  the  ex- 
isting hydroelectric  facilities  rather  than  embark  on  new  projects. 
Emphasis  was  placed  on  extending  the  electrical  distribution  net- 
work in  rural  areas.  In  1988  the  rural  electrical  network  spanned 
1,400  kilometers,  more  than  double  the  630  kilometers  in  1984. 
The  government  approved  a  total  of  US$139  million  in  investments 
in  1988-89  by  UTE,  mostly  in  the  distribution  program. 

Uruguay  had  no  domestic  oil  resources,  despite  several  explo- 
ration efforts.  The  nation  imported  mostly  crude  oil,  which  was 
then  refined  by  ANCAP  and  a  few  small  plants  (see  External  Sec- 
tor, this  ch.).  In  1985  ANCAP  had  a  refining  capacity  of  40,000 
barrels  per  day;  its  facilities  were  upgraded  during  the  late  1980s. 

Services 

Uruguay's  service  sector,  comprising  the  major  subsectors  of 
banking,  transportation,  communications,  and  tourism,  as  well  as 
the  activities  of  the  large  central  government,  accounted  for  42  per- 
cent of  GDP  in  1988.  Transportation,  storage,  and  communica- 
tions together  accounted  for  about  6  percent  of  GDP,  while  banking 
and  commerce  accounted  for  about  15  percent.  Thus,  half  of  the 
so-called  service  sector  consisted  of  government  activity. 

On  the  one  hand,  the  service  sector  was  a  strong  point  in  the 
economy  because  of  the  well-educated  work  force  concentrated  in 
Montevideo.  On  the  other  hand,  the  instability  among  banks,  the 
lack  of  a  modernized  telecommunications  system,  and  shortcom- 
ings in  the  nation's  transportation  infrastructure  held  back  the  sec- 
tor's development.  In  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  these  issues  took 
on  increasing  importance  as  the  government  began  promoting  the 
idea  of  Uruguay  as  an  international  service  center  for  the  Southern 
Cone  (Argentina,  Bolivia,  Chile,  Paraguay,  and  Uruguay).  The 
growing  potential  to  export  services  and  to  integrate  them  across 


132 


133 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


borders  was  considered  a  key  element  in  the  future  development 
of  Uruguay's  outward-oriented  economy. 

Banking  and  Financial  Services 

Uruguay's  banking  sector  was  headed  by  the  Central  Bank  of 
Uruguay  (Banco  Central  del  Uruguay;  hereafter,  Central  Bank), 
founded  in  1967  and  charged  with  regulating  the  nation's  bank- 
ing and  financial  system  and  performing  such  standard  central  bank 
functions  as  controlling  the  money  supply,  regulating  credit,  issu- 
ing currency,  controlling  foreign  exchange,  and  overseeing  the  oper- 
ations of  the  nation's  private  commercial  banks.  The  Bank  of 
Uruguay  (Banco  de  la  Republica  Oriental  del  Uruguay — BROU), 
founded  in  1896,  had  performed  some  of  the  functions  of  a  central 
bank  prior  to  the  creation  of  the  Central  Bank.  An  autonomous 
entity,  it  remained  in  1990  the  country's  largest  and  most  signifi- 
cant commercial  bank.  The  banking  sector  also  included  the  So- 
cial Welfare  Bank  (Banco  de  Prevision  Social),  the  Commercial 
Bank  (Banco  Comercial),  and  several  other  state-owned  banks,  such 
as  the  Mortgage  Bank  of  Uruguay  (Banco  Hipotecario  del  Uru- 
guay) and  the  State  Insurance  Bank  (Banco  de  Seguros  del  Esta- 
do),  as  well  as  a  number  of  private  commercial  and  savings  banks. 

In  the  late  1980s,  Uruguay's  financial  sector  was  still  feeling  the 
effects  of  a  profound  banking  crisis  that  had  begun  early  in  the 
decade.  The  crisis  had  its  origins  in  the  rapid  expansion  of  credit 
to  the  private  sector  during  the  1978-82  period.  The  unrestrained 
expansion  of  credit  was  made  possible  by  the  deregulation  of  the 
banks.  As  part  of  its  effort  to  reorient  the  Uruguayan  economy 
to  the  external  market,  the  military  government  removed  or  reduced 
most  restrictions  on  banks,  including  reserve  requirements  (which 
limit  the  amount  of  loans  that  can  be  made,  relative  to  bank 
deposits),  interest  rate  ceilings,  and  foreign  currency  regulations. 
The  sudden  removal  of  these  and  other  restrictions  encouraged 
banks  to  expand  the  supply  of  credit.  The  demand  for  credit  also 
expanded  because  rising  prices  for  exports  convinced  many  ranchers 
and  manufacturers  to  invest  in  land  or  equipment.  The  first  signs 
of  trouble  came  from  the  livestock  sector.  When  world  beef  prices 
fell  in  1980,  rural  land  prices  began  to  decline  sharply,  and  ranch- 
ers began  to  have  difficulty  servicing  their  loans  (see  Livestock 
Ranching,  this  ch.). 

The  crisis  became  widespread  after  the  economy  went  into  reces- 
sion in  1981 .  By  1982  one-quarter  of  all  loans  to  the  private  sector 
were  considered  nonperforming.  The  increasing  dollarization  of 
credit  complicated  the  situation.  Banks  that  had  received  large 
United  States  dollar  deposits  also  made  loans  in  dollars  in  order 


134 


The  Economy 


to  avoid  exchange-rate  risk.  The  trend  toward  dollarization  in- 
creased in  early  1982  because  banks  expected  a  major  peso  devalu- 
ation. By  late  1982,  about  60  percent  of  all  loans  were  denominated 
in  dollars.  When  the  fixed  peso  exchange  rate  was  finally  aban- 
doned toward  the  end  of  the  year,  leading  to  a  large  peso  devalua- 
tion, many  already-troubled  private  companies,  which  earned  pesos 
on  the  domestic  market,  suddenly  faced  dollar-denominated  loans 
whose  peso  value  had  tripled. 

Government  intervention  was  required  to  prevent  widespread 
bankruptcies.  BROU  devised  a  two-part  strategy  for  dealing  with 
the  crisis.  First,  it  provided  credit  to  the  private  banks  so  that  loans 
could  be  refinanced.  About  one-fifth  of  all  outstanding  loans  (worth 
US$400  million)  were  refinanced  by  late  1982,  allowing  debtors 
a  two-  or  three-year  grace  period  and  a  lengthened  repayment  sched- 
ule. The  loans  were  still  in  dollars,  however,  so  that  further  devalu- 
ations of  the  peso  remained  a  difficulty  for  debtors.  BROU's  second 
action  was  to  acquire  many  loan  portfolios  from  the  private  banks. 
The  government  thus  propped  up  several  private  banks,  actually 
buying  out  four  of  the  twenty-four  banks  in  the  country.  This  policy 
prevented  a  banking  collapse  but  significantly  increased  BROU's 
obligations,  making  it  responsible  for  a  large  share  of  the  public- 
sector  deficit. 

The  financial  sector  remained  in  a  precarious  condition  as  the 
Sanguinetti  government  took  office.  By  the  end  of  1984,  the  banking 
system  had  a  negative  net  worth.  In  1985,  however,  the  banking 
system  raised  US$400  million  in  new  dollar  deposits.  Although  over- 
all economic  conditions  improved  during  the  first  three  years  of 
the  Sanguinetti  administration,  credit  remained  restricted  and  in- 
terest rates  high,  making  it  difficult  for  even  solvent  borrowers  to 
obtain  new  loans.  The  government  continued  its  efforts  to  strength- 
en the  banks.  For  example,  it  planned  to  spend  US$160  million 
in  1989  to  restructure  the  four  banks  bought  during  the  height  of 
the  banking  crisis  so  that  they  could  be  sold  to  the  private  sector. 
Critics  charged  that  these  banks  were  too  highly  indebted,  ineffi- 
cient, and  overstaffed  to  be  sold.  As  of  mid- 1989,  all  but  one  of 
the  banks  remained  under  the  supervision  of  BROU,  Uruguay's 
largest  bank  (a  state  enterprise).  One  bank,  the  Commercial  Bank, 
was  sold  to  a  group  of  international  investors  in  1990. 

Dollarization  of  the  banking  system  continued  to  increase.  The 
proportion  of  money  held  in  United  States  dollar  accounts  reached 
84  percent  in  1989.  The  major  source  of  these  funds  was  Argenti- 
na, whose  savers  sought  a  safe  haven  and  a  dependable  currency. 
Uruguayan  savers  placed  deposits  in  dollars  to  avoid  exchange- 
rate  fluctuations.  Thus,  the  openness  of  the  banking  system  may 


135 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

have  prevented  some  capital  flight,  but  the  dollarization  of  bank 
deposits  made  it  difficult  for  the  government  to  conduct  a  mone- 
tary policy  because  the  money  supply  could  not  be  tightiy  controlled. 
Nevertheless,  the  government  did  not  restrict  the  banking  system 
to  deposits  in  pesos,  encouraging  instead  the  further  internation- 
alization of  Uruguay's  banks,  most  of  which  were  foreign  owned. 
In  addition,  liberal  offshore  banking  rules  (for  transactions  among 
nonresidents)  were  introduced  in  1989. 

Although  Lacalle  supported  the  idea  of  Uruguay  as  an  interna- 
tional banking  center,  he  indicated  in  early  1990  that  his  adminis- 
tration planned  to  introduce  legislation  under  which  bank  secrecy 
i.e.,  anonymous  accounts,  would  be  lifted  in  cases  where  illegal 
drug-money  laundering  was  suspected.  The  government  was  pres- 
sured to  change  that  aspect  of  its  banking  regulations  after  an  al- 
leged Colombian  "drug  lord"  told  United  States  officials  that  he 
and  others  often  used  Uruguayan  accounts. 

Transportation  and  Communications 

Uruguay's  small  size  and  relatively  flat  terrain  have  made  de- 
velopment of  an  excellent  transportation  network  easy.  By  most 
accounts,  the  country  had  one  of  the  best  domestic  highway  and 
rail  systems  in  Latin  America.  The  country's  location  in  the 
Southern  Hemisphere,  far  from  many  of  its  trading  partners, 
however,  and  its  lack  of  land  links  with  neighboring  countries  have 
been  a  hindrance  in  the  past  to  foreign  trade  and  transportation. 
New  technologies,  including  the  introduction  of  refrigerated  ships 
early  in  the  twentieth  century  and  later  the  airplane,  have  improved 
access  to  distant  markets.  Moreover,  since  the  1970s  the  country 
has  made  a  concerted  effort  to  upgrade  links  with  neighbors,  im- 
proving road  connections  to  Brazil  and  constructing  highway  and 
later  railroad  bridges  across  the  Rio  Uruguay  to  Argentina. 

The  highway  network  radiated  out  from  Montevideo  and  in  1989 
consisted  of  about  50,000  kilometers  of  roads,  including  6,500 
kilometers  of  the  national  network  that  received  improvements  dur- 
ing the  1985-89  period.  Rural  areas  were  served  by  a  secondary 
network  of  3,000  kilometers  of  gravel  roads  and  40,200  kilometers 
of  dirt  roads.  Road  transport  carried  an  estimated  87  percent  of 
all  freight,  and  a  modern  bus  system  provided  passenger  links  be- 
tween most  of  the  populated  areas.  Bridges  at  Fray  Bentos  and  Pay- 
sandu  spanned  the  Rio  Uruguay  and  provided  for  easy  road  transit 
to  Argentina,  and  by  the  late  1980s  newly  paved  roads  to  the  north- 
ern border  tied  into  the  Brazilian  road  network  (see  fig.  8).  In  1989 
Uruguay  was  granted  loans  of  US$84  million  from  the  Inter- 
American  Development  Bank  and  US$81  million  from  the  World 


136 


Tacuarembo 


Paysandu 


T,mbaCse  del 


Mercedes 


yi  Paso  de 
los  Toros 


Durazno 


Trinidad 


Martin 


Canelones 


Buenos 
Aires 


Florida 


^  mode 

la  'Plata  Piriapoho 

Montevideo  9  J<        ,    ^  v 

>y  Laguna  del 

ARGENTINA  \ 

\  Boundary  represe 


Figure  8.  Transportation  System,  1990 
138 


—  International  boundary 
National  capital 
Populated  place 

-+  Railroad 
Road 

—  Pan  American  Highway 
Major  airport 

Major  port 

0    20  40  Kilometers 


0       20       40  Miles 
'Claimed  by  Argentina  and  Uruguay 


Maldonada 

Punta  del 
Este 


Palorna 


ntation  not  necessarily  authoritative 


The  Economy 


Bank  (see  Glossary)  to  modernize  its  international  highways  and 
to  begin  construction  of  Route  1 ,  linking  Montevideo  with  Bue- 
nos Aires. 

Owing  to  the  high  cost  of  automobile  ownership  in  Uruguay, 
traffic  congestion  in  Montevideo  remained  low  by  the  standards 
of  other  cities  in  the  world.  There  was  no  subway  system  in  1990, 
but  an  extensive  bus  network  operated  on  a  twenty-four-hour  ba- 
sis. The  city's  electric  trolleys  had  been  allowed  to  decay,  and  the 
number  of  routes  had  been  repeatedly  reduced. 

In  1989  the  government-owned  AFE  maintained  3,000  kilome- 
ters of  standard- gauge  railroads.  Montevideo  was  the  center  of  the 
system  with  lines  extending  out  to  the  north,  northwest,  and  east. 
Three  connections  with  the  Brazilian  rail  system  and  a  new  link 
with  Argentina  that  opened  in  1982  allowed  for  easier  shipment 
of  goods  to  these  countries.  The  rail  authority,  however,  found  it 
increasingly  difficult  to  maintain  passenger  trains  in  the  face  of  a 
decade  of  declining  ridership.  In  1988  all  passenger  service  was 
discontinued  under  the  government's  five-year  rationalization  pro- 
gram designed  to  downsize  the  stagnant  railroad  subsector. 

Carrasco  International  Airport,  located  twenty-one  kilometers 
from  Montevideo,  was  the  country's  principal  airport.  Capitan 
Curbelo  Airport,  near  Punta  del  Este,  also  handled  international 
flights  to  Brazil  and  Argentina.  Fourteen  other  primarily  commer- 
cial airports  with  paved  runways  were  distributed  throughout  Uru- 
guay. Uruguayan  National  Airlines  (Primeras  Lineas  Uruguayas 
de  Navegacion  Aerea — PLUNA)  operated  fourteen  aircraft  to 
domestic  destinations  and  neighboring  countries.  Three  Boeing  737s 
and  one  Boeing  707  were  the  workhorses  of  PLUNA' s  regional 
service.  Uruguayan  Military  Air  Transport  (Transportes  Aereos 
Militares  Uruguayos — TAMU),  a  small  airline  owned  by  the  Uru- 
guayan Air  Force,  maintained  commercial  flights  on  several  domes- 
tic and  foreign  routes. 

Despite  improvements  in  land  and  air  transportation  since  the 
1960s,  most  foreign  trade  still  went  by  water.  Montevideo  was  the 
country's  principal  port,  handling  close  to  60  percent  of  all  cargo 
in  the  early  1980s.  Other  major  ports  included  Colonia  and  Punta 
del  Este  on  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  Estuary  and  Fray  Bentos,  Paysan- 
du,  and  Salto  on  the  Rio  Uruguay.  Passenger  ferries  linked  Mon- 
tevideo and  Buenos  Aires  with  six-hour-long  crossings  via  Colonia, 
and  a  modern  high-speed  hydrofoil  traveled  from  Colonia  to  Bue- 
nos Aires  in  three  and  one-half  hours. 

River  transport  remained  an  important  means  of  transportation, 
carrying  about  5  percent  of  all  freight,  and  the  country  counted 
over  1,600  kilometers  of  navigable  inland  waterways.  The  Rio 


139 


BRAZIL 


International  boundary 
National  capital 
•        Populated  place 
1  Railroad 
Road 

  Pan  American  Highway 

■T-       Major  airport 
J,       Major  port 

0    20  40  Kilometers 
0       20      40  Mil 
'Claimed  by  Argentina  and  Uruguay 


BRAZIL 


\  Colonia 

Buenos^^^  [a  Tiara 
Aires 


Montevideo  ^J^ 


Piriapolis^-,^^- 

Loguna  del    Punta  del 
Sauce  Este 


La  Paloma 


OCESl9i 

Boundary  representation  not  necessarily  authoritative 


Figure  8.  Transportation  System,  1990 
138 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Uruguay  was  by  far  the  most  important  waterway,  and  ocean- 
going ships  of  up  to  4.2  meters  draught  could  travel  north  as  far 
as  Paysandu.  Smaller  vessels  of  up  to  2.7  meters  draught  could 
travel  upstream  to  Salto. 

Broadcast  facilities  were  numerous,  and  all  parts  of  the  country 
could  receive  at  least  one  AM  radio  station  or  one  television  sta- 
tion. In  1990  there  were  ninety-nine  AM  stations,  a  quarter  of  which 
were  in  the  Montevideo  area.  Ten  of  the  AM  stations  broadcast 
on  shortwave  frequencies  to  reach  a  larger  audience  both  domesti- 
cally and  abroad.  All  stations,  except  for  one  government-owned 
transmitter,  were  commercial,  and  broadcasts  were  in  Spanish. 
Montevideo  had  four  television  stations;  another  twenty-two  were 
scattered  in  towns  across  the  country.  Uruguayans  had  an  estimated 
1.8  million  radio  receivers  and  650,000  television  sets  in  1990. 

Improvement  of  the  nation's  telephone  system  was  a  priority  for 
the  Sanguinetti  government.  By  1990  there  were  over  345,000  tele- 
phones (at  least  1 1  percent  of  the  population,  the  highest  per  capi- 
ta in  South  America),  an  increase  of  over  25  percent  from  five  years 
earlier.  The  US$13  million  expansion  of  service,  about  half  of  which 
took  place  in  the  country's  interior,  helped  reduce  the  number  of 
households  and  businesses  on  a  waiting  list  for  telephone  service. 
The  government's  monopolistic  communications  agency,  ANTEL, 
planned  to  invest  US$100  million  in  the  telephone  system  between 
1989  and  1993,  extending  service  to  another  180,000  households 
in  the  country's  interior.  The  basic  elements  of  the  nation's  telecom- 
munications network  were  expanded,  and  the  system  was  modern- 
ized. In  1990  the  government  heeded  the  growing  Latin  American 
trend  toward  privatization  of  state  enterprises  when  it  began  al- 
lowing private  investment  in  the  nation's  telephone  system.  After 
years  of  depending  on  Argentine  relay  stations  for  its  internation- 
al telephone  service,  Uruguay  installed  its  first  satellite  earth  sta- 
tion in  1985.  In  1990  it  had  two  International  Telecommunications 
Satellite  Organization  (Intelsat)  earth  stations.  Telex  and  facsimile 
(fax)  services  were  also  expanded. 

Tourism 

Tourism  in  Uruguay  generated  an  estimated  US$300  million 
in  1989,  equivalent  to  22  percent  of  merchandise  exports.  The 
tourist  industry  depended  mainly  on  visitors  from  Argentina.  Thus, 
not  only  were  tourist  receipts  seasonal  (peaking  in  the  warm  sum- 
mer months,  January  through  March),  they  also  fluctuated  along 
with  economic  conditions  in  Argentina  and  relative  exchange  rates. 
In  1989  about  85  percent  of  the  1  million  tourists  were  from  Ar- 
gentina; an  additional  10  percent  were  from  Brazil,  and  smaller 


140 


Artigas  Boulevard, 
a  highway  leading 
to  downtown  Montevideo 
Courtesy  Inter-American 
Development  Bank 


percentages  came  from  Paraguay  and  Chile.  Many  of  the  visitors 
from  Argentina  owned  property  in  Uruguay,  especially  in  the  resort 
area  of  Punta  del  Este,  which  drew  half  of  all  summer  tourists. 

In  1986  the  Sanguinetti  government  created  the  Ministry  of 
Tourism  to  regulate  hotel  and  resort  prices  and  to  promote  Uru- 
guayan tourist  attractions  at  international  exhibitions.  The  minis- 
try also  developed  programs  aimed  at  attracting  visitors  and 
conventions  to  Uruguay  during  the  low  season,  but  with  limited 
success.  At  the  same  time,  the  government  supported  the  improve- 
ment of  hotels,  marinas,  and  camping  facilities.  To  protect  the 
beaches,  a  key  tourist  attraction,  the  Montevideo  sewage  system 
was  being  upgraded  in  1 990  so  that  it  would  discharge  more  than 
two  kilometers  offshore.  Despite  such  efforts,  tourism  was  expect- 
ed to  remain  mostly  regional  because  of  the  long  distance  from  Eu- 
rope and  the  United  States,  lack  of  services  (Uruguay  had  no 
five- star  hotels),  lack  of  promotion,  and  restrictive  transportation 
policies  (for  example,  charter  flights  were  difficult  to  get). 

External  Sector 

Two  concerns  dominated  Uruguay's  foreign  economic  relations 
during  the  1980s.  The  first,  both  a  fiscal  and  an  external  problem, 
was  the  foreign  debt.  Uruguay's  external  debt  of  about  US$6.7 
billion  (US$6.2  of  this  was  foreign  debt  to  the  United  States)  in 
1989  (US$4.2  billion  belonging  to  the  public  sector)  was  not  an 


141 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


issue  affecting  international  financial  markets,  like  the  much  larg- 
er debt  burdens  of  Brazil  or  Mexico  (each  over  US$100  billion). 
Even  so,  Uruguay's  indebtedness  was  onerous  in  comparison  with 
the  size  of  its  economy  and  was  one  of  the  highest  per  capita  debts 
in  the  region.  For  both  the  Sanguinetti  and  the  Lacalle  govern- 
ments, debt  reduction  and  debt  rescheduling  were  priorities. 

The  second  major  concern  was  trade,  primarily  for  its  impor- 
tance to  overall  economic  growth.  Trade-related  activities  were 
responsible  for  about  12  percent  of  GDP  in  1988.  Exports,  which 
were  the  source  of  Uruguay's  wealth  in  the  early  twentieth  centu- 
ry, were  seen  as  the  key  to  the  revival  of  the  economy.  Demand 
within  Uruguay  was  simply  too  small  to  support  large  production 
increases.  Trade  was  especially  important  in  the  1980s  because  of 
the  debt  burden.  In  order  to  make  payments  on  mostly  dollar- 
denominated  loans,  Uruguay  needed  foreign  exchange  (dollars). 
Thus,  the  trade  balance  (the  difference  in  value  between  exports 
and  imports)  took  on  added  significance.  To  spur  economic  growth 
and  to  earn  foreign  exchange,  Uruguay  joined  other  Latin  Ameri- 
can nations  in  restraining  imports  and  augmenting  exports.  Despite 
its  positive  trade  balance,  however,  Uruguay's  foreign  debt  con- 
tinued to  increase. 

Foreign  Debt 

Uruguay  began  borrowing  abroad  on  a  large  scale  in  the  1970s 
after  the  price  of  oil  (its  largest  import)  quadrupled.  The  oil  price 
increase  that  prompted  many  developing  nations  to  begin  borrowing 
also  made  it  easier  for  them  to  borrow;  commercial  banks  were 
flush  with  petrodollars  (foreign  exchange  obtained  by  petroleum- 
exporting  countries  through  sales  abroad)  and  were  eager  to  make 
loans.  Uruguay's  debt  increased  from  US$500  million  in  1976  to 
as  much  as  US$5.9  billion  by  the  end  of  1987.  Although  this  debt 
was  already  large  in  proportion  to  Uruguay's  GDP,  international 
financial  conditions  made  the  loans  appear  beneficial  for  both  the 
creditors  (commercial  banks  and  international  organizations)  and 
the  Uruguayan  government. 

The  most  significant  positive  trend,  from  the  point  of  view  of 
both  parties,  was  the  decline  in  the  late  1970s  of  the  dollar's  value, 
relative  to  major  currencies.  This  decline  meant  that  dollar  prices 
of  most  internationally  traded  goods  were  rising,  a  fact  that  had 
double  significance.  First,  Uruguayan  exporters  (like  exporters  in 
many  other  developing  countries)  were  earning  more  dollars  for 
a  given  basket  of  goods,  making  the  country  appear  capable  of 
repaying  a  large  debt.  Second,  real  interest  rates  (the  nominal  in- 
terest rate  minus  inflation)  were  negative.  That  is,  the  rate  at  which 


142 


The  Economy 


the  dollar  value  of  Uruguay's  exports  was  rising  (about  30  percent 
per  year  in  1979)  was  higher  than  the  nominal  United  States  in- 
terest rate  (11  percent  per  year  in  1979).  Thus,  it  was  becoming 
easier  for  Uruguay  to  service  its  external  debt.  Under  these  condi- 
tions, the  government  was  inclined  to  continue  borrowing  abroad 
to  finance  its  deficit  and  to  fund  development  projects. 

The  situation  changed  dramatically  in  the  1980s  for  several  rea- 
sons. First,  the  dollar  appreciated  significantly.  This  reversed  the 
process  that  had  occurred  in  the  1970s;  the  dollar  price  of  Uru- 
guay's exports  fell.  Second,  the  United  States  tightened  its  money 
supply.  This  prompted  banks  to  raise  interest  rates  on  both  old 
and  new  loans  (the  adjustable  interest  rate  had  become  common 
in  the  1970s).  Both  of  these  developments  raised  the  real  interest 
rate  on  Uruguay's  debt.  As  the  dollar  appreciated,  the  peso 
declined,  making  the  dollar  value  of  Uruguay's  GDP  smaller  and 
the  ratio  of  debt  to  GDP  larger  (with  both  debt  and  GDP  denomi- 
nated in  dollars).  At  the  same  time,  lower  export  earnings  made 
it  more  difficult  for  Uruguay  to  service  its  external  debt.  New  loans 
were  needed  just  so  that  the  country  could  service  old  debt,  even 
though  foreign  borrowing  had  become  far  less  attractive  than  in 
the  1970s.  In  1985  the  total  debt  burden  stood  at  US$4.9  billion; 
debt  service  (interest  payments  alone)  consumed  34  percent  of  the 
nation's  export  income. 

The  debt  crisis  overshadowed  all  other  economic  difficulties  in 
Uruguay  during  the  late  1980s.  The  crisis  was  a  vicious  circle.  Pay- 
ing off  the  debt  required  higher  growth  and  higher  income.  But 
the  mere  act  of  paying  debt  service  on  the  huge  amounts  of  prin- 
cipal reduced  essential  investment  spending  and  precluded  sustained 
economic  growth.  While  the  debt  continued  to  grow,  finding  the 
means  of  servicing  the  debt  became  an  economic  priority;  Uru- 
guay was  one  of  the  few  Latin  American  countries  that  did  not 
default  on  its  debt.  While  debt  service  became  difficult,  new  ex- 
ternal loans  were  no  longer  available  (except  to  help  service  old 
debt)  because  Latin  American  debtors  were  no  longer  considered 
creditworthy.  Thus,  the  government  had  to  resort  to  inflationary 
means  ("printing  money")  to  finance  its  public-sector  deficit  domes- 
tically. This  directly  contradicted  the  government's  primary  goal 
of  eliminating  inflation. 

The  Sanguinetti  administration's  debt  policy  focused  on  the  most 
immediate  difficulty  for  Uruguay:  large  debt- service  payments. 
Through  negotiations  with  its  creditors,  including  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary),  the  government  was  able 
to  gain  some  breathing  space.  The  debt-service  burden  declined 
to  an  estimated  US$449  million  in  1989  (28  percent  of  export 


143 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


earnings)  from  US$613  million  in  1988  (44  percent  of  export  earn- 
ings). However,  the  fact  that  debt  was  merely  being  rescheduled 
meant  that  the  overall  debt  burden  did  not  decrease.  New  financ- 
ing actually  added  to  the  debt,  which  increased  to  US$6.7  billion 
by  the  end  of  1989.  Several  projects  to  reduce  the  debt  principal 
were  carried  out  under  the  debt-for-equity  program,  but  they  were 
small  compared  with  the  total  debt.  During  the  1988-89  period, 
the  Central  Bank  approved  fourteen  investment  projects  that 
reduced  the  debt  by  an  estimated  US$78  million. 

Substantive  efforts  to  decrease  a  portion  of  the  debt  burden — 
the  US$1.7  billion  owed  to  commercial  banks — began  in  March 
1989  in  the  context  of  the  United  States  government's  Brady  Plan. 
In  an  important  departure  from  earlier  United  States  policy,  the 
Brady  Plan  (named  after  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  Nicolas  Brady) 
officially  recognized  the  need  for  debt  reduction.  Minister  of  Econ- 
omy and  Finance  Ricardo  Zerbino  and  Central  Bank  president 
Ricardo  Pascale  began  debt  negotiations  with  international  credi- 
tors in  September  1989. 

The  Brady  Plan  offered  commercial  banks  holding  Uruguayan 
debt  three  options.  (The  same  three  options  applied  in  the  case  of 
other  Latin  American  nations,  with  minor  variations  in  the  percen- 
tage terms  of  each  option.)  First,  the  banks  could  increase  their  cur- 
rent loans  by  20  percent  over  four  years,  offering  Uruguay  new 
money  in  exchange  for  strengthened  guarantees  of  repayment.  Sec- 
ond, banks  could  exchange  their  debt  for  guaranteed  bonds  (backed 
by  United  States  Treasury  bonds)  paying  a  fixed  6.34  percent  in- 
terest. Finally,  banks  could  opt  to  allow  Uruguay  to  repurchase  its 
debt  for  56  percent  of  the  debt's  face  value.  In  a  tentative  agree- 
ment reached  in  1990,  banks  holding  28  percent  of  the  debt  chose 
the  new  money,  banks  with  33  percent  of  the  debt  chose  to  convert 
to  fixed- interest  bonds,  and  those  holding  the  remaining  39  percent 
chose  to  allow  Uruguay  to  repurchase  its  debt.  The  agreement  was 
significant  even  though  it  affected  only  about  one-fourth  of  Uru- 
guay's debt.  As  the  Economist  reported,  "Once  a  country  has  reached 
a  Brady-plan  deal,  it  is  on  the  road  to  financial  respectability." 

Trade 

Uruguay  expanded  its  involvement  in  international  trade  con- 
siderably during  the  latter  part  of  the  1980s.  Exports  doubled  (in 
nominal  dollar  terms)  from  US$854  million  in  1985  to  US$1 .6  bil- 
lion in  1989.  Imports  increased  at  a  slower  rate,  from  US$675  mil- 
lion in  1985  to  US$1.1  billion  in  1989.  The  merchandise  balance 
of  trade  reached  a  positive  US$463  million  in  1989,  helping  to  off- 
set the  demands  of  debt  service. 


144 


The  Economy 


The  largest  export  markets  were  Brazil  (US$443  million  in  1989), 
the  European  Community  (US$363  million),  the  United  States 
(US$177  million),  and  Argentina  (US$78  million).  Brazil  (US$369 
million),  Argentina  (US$177  million),  and  the  United  States 
(US$109  million)  were  the  leading  sources  of  imports  in  1988.  Uru- 
guay's largest  exports  continued  to  be  its  so-called  traditional 
products:  wool  (US$288  million  in  1989),  meat  (US$225  million), 
and  hides  (US$129  million).  While  much  attention  continued  to 
be  focused  on  these  three  largest  exports,  a  variety  of  nontradi- 
tional  exports  took  on  growing  importance  during  the  late  1980s. 
Goods  such  as  processed  foods,  grains,  fishery  products,  chemi- 
cals, and  finished  leather  apparel  together  accounted  for  60  per- 
cent of  Uruguay's  exports  by  the  end  of  the  decade. 

Uruguay's  largest  import  was  crude  oil.  Imports  of  oil  declined 
during  much  of  the  1980s  as  Uruguay  increased  its  reliance  on 
hydroelectric  power.  Reduced  oil  prices  in  the  late  1980s,  combined 
with  the  reduction  in  the  quantity  of  imports,  helped  improve  the 
nation's  overall  trade  balance.  The  value  of  oil  imports  declined 
from  US$433  million  in  1982  (40  percent  of  imports)  to  about 
US$120  million  in  1988  (about  10  percent  of  imports).  In  1989 
the  trend  toward  lower  oil  imports  was  reversed  when  the  severe 
drought  compromised  Uruguay's  capacity  to  generate  hydroelec- 
tric power;  oil  imports  increased  to  US$139  million.  As  a  nation 
with  no  domestic  sources  of  petroleum,  Uruguay  was  particularly 
hard-hit  by  the  oil  price  rise  that  accompanied  the  Persian  Gulf 
crisis  in  late  1990.  Domestic  fuel  prices  were  raised  by  over  50  per- 
cent during  September  and  October  1990. 

Several  categories  of  industrial  imports  increased  as  Uruguay's 
manufacturing  sector  recovered  from  the  recession.  The  largest  in- 
creases were  among  semi-industrialized  products,  such  as  chemi- 
cals, rubber,  and  plastics,  which  increased  from  US$300  million 
in  1982  to  US$500  million  in  1987.  Imports  of  capital  goods 
(machinery  and  transportation  equipment)  dipped  in  the  mid-1980s 
but  recovered  to  US$150  million  in  1987,  indicating  that  manufac- 
turing activity  could  increase.  In  1989,  however,  imports  of  capi- 
tal goods  fell  by  14  percent  to  US$137  million. 

Balance  of  Payments 

Uruguay's  trade  balance  was  positive  and  steadily  improving 
during  most  of  the  1980s.  However,  the  current  account  balance 
remained  negative  until  the  mid-1980s  because  of  the  burden  of 
debt  service  (see  table  16,  Appendix).  In  1986,  1988,  and  1989, 
the  trade  balance  was  large  enough  to  make  the  current  account 
balance  positive.  An  exception  to  this  pattern  was  1987  because 


145 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

imports  surged  as  the  economy  recovered  from  the  recession.  The 
capital  account  balance  was  positive  for  most  of  the  1980s  because 
Uruguay  continued  to  borrow  from  abroad  to  help  cover  its  debt- 
service  payments  and  because  foreigners  continued  to  deposit  money 
in  Uruguayan  banks.  Uruguay's  reserves  decreased  during  most 
years,  but  as  of  1988  the  nation  still  had  substantial  gold  reserves — 
more  than  80  tons.  During  the  1989  presidential  campaign,  at  least 
one  candidate  proposed  selling  the  gold  reserves  to  pay  off  the  for- 
eign debt.  Lacalle  opposed  such  a  plan,  however. 

Economic  Integration 

Economic  integration  with  other  Latin  American  nations  was 
an  important  goal  for  Uruguay  because  of  its  small  internal  mar- 
ket. The  idea  of  integration  was  enshrined  in  the  nation's  consti- 
tution, which  states  that  "the  Republic  will  seek  to  achieve  social 
and  economic  integration  of  the  Latin  American  nations,  especially 
to  provide  for  a  common  defense  of  products  and  raw  materials." 

Sanguinetti  played  an  important  mediating  role  in  the  early  dis- 
cussions of  integration  between  Argentina  and  Brazil,  a  delicate 
process  because  of  the  traditional  rivalry  between  the  two  larger 
nations  (see  Foreign  Relations  under  Democratic  Rule,  1985-90, 
ch.  4).  Presidents  Raul  Alfonsm  of  Argentina,  Jose  Sarney  Costa 
of  Brazil,  and  Sanguinetti  held  five  trilateral  meetings  between  1986 
and  1988,  during  which  they  signed  several  tariff-reduction  agree- 
ments and  discussed  a  long-term  framework  for  regional  econom- 
ic integration. 

The  Uruguayan  government  predicted  that  the  lower  trade  bar- 
riers would  allow  Uruguayan  exports  to  Brazil  and  Argentina  to 
increase  by  80  to  90  percent  by  1991.  In  practice,  however,  Uru- 
guay's trade  with  its  larger  neighbors  seemed  to  be  affected  more 
by  exchange  rates  than  by  tariff  and  quota  agreements.  For  exam- 
ple, Uruguay  already  had  bilateral  trade  agreements  with  both 
Brazil  and  Argentina  during  the  late  1980s,  but  in  early  1990  ex- 
ports to  Argentina  covered  by  the  agreement  actually  declined.  In 
contrast,  exports  to  Brazil  increased  markedly  during  the  first  half 
of  1990  after  the  Brazilian  government  tightened  liquidity  and 
caused  the  Brazilian  cruzeiro  to  appreciate. 

Despite  such  early  evidence  that  the  trade  agreements  were  hav- 
ing only  a  limited  effect  on  regional  commerce,  Lacalle  indicated 
in  early  1990  that  he  expected  Uruguay  to  continue  to  play  a  pivotal 
role  in  regional  integration.  He  indicated  further  that  he  hoped 
the  integration  would  be  extended  to  include  Paraguay  and  Bolivia. 
"We  will  try  to  open  the  Atlantic  balcony  to  [those]  inland  coun- 
tries," he  said,  "improving  the  operation  of  our  ports,  promoting 


146 


The  Economy 


the  use  of  the  Parana-Paraguay  waterway,  and  establishing  free- 
trade  zones  near  the  ports  for  the  manufacture  of  products  from 
the  South  American  'hinterland'.  "  Lacalle  also  said  he  proposed 
to  President  Andres  Rodriguez  Pedotti  of  Paraguay  the  formation 
of  a  trinational  fleet  of  merchant  vessels  to  carry  Uruguayan, 
Paraguayan,  and  Bolivian  products  to  markets  in  North  America, 
Europe,  and  Asia. 

Thus,  Lacalle  envisioned  Uruguay  not  only  as  a  participant  in 
trade  agreements  with  its  larger  neighbors  but  also  as  a  close  part- 
ner with  the  smaller  and  apparently  more  stable  economies  of  the 
region.  A  noteworthy  aspect  of  Lacalle 's  plan  was  its  stress  on  the 
development  of  the  regional  infrastructure.  Lack  of  such  an 
infrastructure — there  was  no  railroad  bridge  between  Uruguay  and 
Argentina,  for  example,  until  the  Salto  Grande  Dam  opened  in 
1982 — remained  a  serious  impediment  to  regional  integration. 

Free-Trade  Zones 

The  free-trade  zones  that  Lacalle  mentioned  were  already  oper- 
ating in  Uruguay  during  the  late  1980s  as  an  important  part  of 
the  Sanguinetti  administration's  strategy  to  encourage  both  for- 
eign investment  and  regional  trade.  Under  legislation  passed  in 
late  1987,  free- trade  zones  such  as  the  ones  in  Colonia  and  Nueva 
Palmira  (in  Colonia  Department)  became  attractive  sites  for  in- 
vestors for  several  reasons:  users  were  exempted  from  all  Uruguayan 
taxes,  except  for  social  security  taxes  on  Uruguayan  workers;  all 
imported  goods  and  services  entering  the  zones  were  exempt  from 
customs  duties  or  taxes;  goods  and  services  reexported  from  the 
zones  were  exempt  from  taxes;  and  commercial  or  government  ser- 
vice monopolies  were  not  applicable  within  the  zones,  so  that  no 
company  was  forced  to  deal  with  the  State  Insurance  Bank,  for 
example.  Restrictions  on  free-trade  zones  prohibited  companies 
from  duplicating  existing  industries,  such  as  textile  manufactur- 
ing. Thus,  the  thrust  of  the  program  was  to  attract  innovative  com- 
panies to  Uruguay.  As  of  early  1990,  the  free-trade  zones  were 
attracting  a  good  deal  of  attention,  but  it  was  too  soon  to  tell  what 
impact  they  would  have  on  the  Uruguayan  economy. 

*    *  * 

A  superb  and  very  readable  introduction  to  Latin  American  eco- 
nomic history,  with  references  to  Uruguay,  is  Celso  Furtado's  Eco- 
nomic Development  of  Latin  America,  which  focuses  on  major  themes 
such  as  import-substitution  industrialization.  For  a  more  detailed 
picture  of  Uruguay's  economic  history  until  the  1970s,  the  best 


147 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

English-language  source  is  M.H  J.  Finch's  A  Political  Economy  of 
Uruguay  since  1870.  Few  English-language  books  have  focused  ex- 
clusively on  Uruguay's  more  recent  economic  progress.  A  good 
source  in  Spanish  is  La  Crisis  uruguaya  y  el  problema  nacional  by  the 
Centro  de  Investigaciones  Economicas. 

Several  references  examine  individual  aspects  of  Uruguay's  econ- 
omy. Two  good  articles  on  the  labor  movement  are  Arturo  S.  Bron- 
stein's  "The  Evolution  of  Labour  Relations  in  Uruguay"  and  Juan 
Rial  Roade's  "Uruguay."  Larry  A.  Sjaastad's  "Debt,  Depres- 
sion, and  Real  Rates  of  Interest  in  Latin  America"  explains  Uru- 
guay's early  involvement  in  the  debt  crisis. 

Basic  economic  data  on  Uruguay  are  provided  in  the  Interna- 
tional Monetary  Fund's  International  Financial  Statistics,  in  the  Inter- 
American  Development  Bank's  Economic  and  Social  Progress  in  Latin 
America,  published  annually,  and  in  the  Latin  American  Regional 
Reports  series  of  periodicals.  Two  useful  Uruguayan  economic  peri- 
odicals are  Guia  financiera  and  Busqueda.  (For  further  information 
and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


148 


Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics 


The  Legislative  Palace 


ON  MARCH  1,  1990,  Uruguayans  and  representatives  of  many 
foreign  governments  witnessed  the  reaffirmation  of  Uruguay's 
revived  democratic  tradition:  the  transfer  of  power  from  one  elected 
president  to  another.  Having  completed  a  full  five-year  term  in 
office,  Julio  Maria  Sanguinetti  Cairolo  (1985-90)  of  the  liberal 
Colorado  Party  (Partido  Colorado)  transferred  the  presidential  sash 
to  Luis  Alberto  Lacalle  de  Herrera  of  the  rival  conservative  Na- 
tional Party  (Partido  Nacional,  usually  referred  to  as  the  Blancos). 
Lacalle  was  elected  to  serve  for  the  1990-95  period  as  the  coun- 
try's fiftieth  president. 

An  urbane  lawyer,  rancher,  and  senator,  Lacalle  was  only  the 
third  National  Party  candidate  ever  to  be  elected  president.  After 
only  five  years  as  a  National  Party  leader,  he  achieved  what  his 
legendary  grandfather,  Luis  Alberto  de  Herrera,  the  National 
Party's  dominant  caudillo  during  the  first  half  of  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury, attained  after  a  half-century  of  political  battles:  the  defeat 
of  the  Colorados  and  the  ascension  of  the  Blancos  to  power.  Tech- 
nically, Lacalle  became  the  first  National  Party  president  because 
Uruguay  was  formally  ruled  by  a  nine-member  collegial  executive 
(colegiado)  when  his  party  won  its  previous  victories. 

Uruguayan  democracy  had  been  reinstated  five  years  earlier — 
after  the  1973-85  period  of  military  rule — as  a  result  of  Sanguinetti' s 
victory  in  the  November  25,  1984,  election  and  referendum.  Those 
national  polls  were  held  in  accordance  with  the  Naval  Club  Pact 
of  1984,  a  political  agreement  between  the  armed  forces  and  four 
political  parties:  the  Colorado  Party,  the  National  Party,  the  Broad 
Front  (Frente  Amplio,  a  leftist  alliance),  and  the  Civic  Union 
(Union  Civica — UC)  (see  The  Military  Government,  1973-85,  ch. 
1).  The  military  regime,  however,  blocked  the  proposed  presiden- 
tial candidacies  of  the  National  Party's  Wilson  Ferreira  Aldunate 
and  the  Broad  Front's  Liber  Seregni  Mosquera.  Running,  in  ef- 
fect, unopposed,  Sanguinetti  won  approximately  41  percent  of  the 
votes,  followed  by  the  National  Party's  34  percent,  the  Broad 
Front's  21  percent,  and  the  UC's  2.5  percent. 

Sanguinetti  was  the  first  Uruguayan  president  to  be  elected,  al- 
beit in  a  semidemocratic  election,  after  the  period  of  repressive  mili- 
tary rule.  He  had  been  a  lawyer,  journalist,  representative,  minister 
of  education  and  culture,  and  minister  of  labor  and  social  welfare. 
During  his  term  of  office,  Sanguinetti  consolidated  Uruguay's 
multiparty  democracy,  restored  the  country's  prestige  and  respect 


151 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

abroad,  increased  its  export  markets,  and  avoided  financial  dis- 
order. He  symbolized  Uruguay's  political  opening  by  visiting  the 
Soviet  Union  and  China  in  1989. 

In  what  proved  to  be  its  most  active  electoral  year,  Uruguay  held 
two  national  elections  in  1989.  The  first  was  a  referendum  on  the 
government's  amnesty  law  for  abuses  committed  by  the  military 
regime.  The  second,  the  November  26  poll — the  first  totally  free 
presidential  elections  to  be  held  in  Uruguay  since  1971 — demon- 
strated the  country's  return  to  its  democratic  tradition  of  free  and 
honest  elections. 

Although  voting  was  compulsory  in  Uruguay,  the  turnout  in  the 
November  26,  1989,  elections  was  nonetheless  impressive:  88  per- 
cent of  the  electorate  of  2.3  million  people  participated.  The  high 
turnout  did  not  necessarily  mean  that  Uruguayan  voters  were 
among  the  most  politically  sophisticated  in  the  world,  although  Uru- 
guayans usually  discussed  and  debated  political  issues  exhaustively 
at  all  levels  of  society.  The  high  voter  turnout  in  1989  demonstrated, 
however — as  it  had  in  1984  when  88.5  percent  participated — that 
Uruguay  was  a  very  politicized  country  and  that  it  had  one  of  Lat- 
in America's  longest  democratic  traditions. 

Despite  Sanguinetti's  accomplishments,  his  party's  historic  and 
decisive  defeat  reflected  widespread  dissatisfaction  with  two  years 
of  economic  stagnation.  The  elections  also  challenged  Uruguay's 
traditional  two-party  system  of  the  Colorado  and  National  parties. 
For  the  first  time,  a  third  party,  the  Broad  Front,  reached  impor- 
tant levels  by  winning  the  country's  second  most  powerful  post  (after 
president  of  the  republic):  the  mayorship  of  Montevideo,  which 
had  over  40  percent  of  the  country's  population  and  more  than 
two-thirds  of  its  economic  activity.  The  new  Marxist  mayor,  Ta- 
bare  Vazquez,  immediately  began  pressing  Lacalle  for  greater 
municipal  autonomy  (see  Democratic  Consolidation,  1985-90,  this 
ch.).  The  prospects  for  the  success  of  a  "co-habitation  arrange- 
ment," i.e.,  harmonious  cooperation,  however,  were  doubtful  be- 
cause Uruguayans  continued  to  support  a  strong  presidential  system 
and  because  Lacalle  was  assertive  of  his  executive  powers.  Thus, 
in  addition  to  the  challenges  posed  by  a  resurgent  political  left,  labor 
unrest,  and  economic  crisis,  the  Lacalle  government  faced  the  pos- 
sibility of  political  clashes  with  the  municipal  government. 

Constitutional  Background 

Since  achieving  independence  in  1828,  Uruguay  has  promul- 
gated five  constitutions:  in  1830,  1917,  1934,  1952,  and  1967.  When 
it  became  independent  on  August  27,  1828,  the  Oriental  Republic 


152 


Welcome  banner  in  Montevideo 's  Independence  Plaza  in  honor  of  the 
1983  state  visit  by  King  Juan  Carlos  I  and  Queen  Sofia  of  Spain 

Courtesy  Charles  Guy  Gillespie 

of  Uruguay  (Republica  Oriental  del  Uruguay)  drew  up  its  first  con- 
stitution, which  was  promulgated  on  July  18,  1830. 

The  1830  constitution  has  been  regarded  as  Uruguay's  most  tech- 
nically perfect  charter.  Heavily  influenced  by  the  thinking  of  the 
French  and  American  revolutions,  it  divided  the  government  among 
the  executive,  legislative,  and  judicial  powers  and  established  Uru- 
guay as  a  unitary  republic  with  a  centralized  form  of  government. 
The  bicameral  General  Assembly  (Asamblea  General)  was  em- 
powered to  elect  a  president  with  considerable  powers  to  head  the 
executive  branch  for  a  four-year  term.  The  president  was  given 
control  over  all  of  his  ministers  of  government  and  was  empowered 
to  make  decisions  with  the  agreement  of  at  least  one  of  the  three 
ministers  recognized  by  the  1830  constitution. 

Like  all  of  Uruguay's  charters  since  then,  the  1830  constitution 
provided  for  a  General  Assembly  composed  of  a  Chamber  of 
Senators  (Camara  de  Senadores),  or  Senate  (Senado),  elected 
nationally,  and  a  Chamber  of  Representatives  (Camara  de  Repre- 
sentantes),  elected  from  the  departments.  Members  of  the  Gen- 
eral Assembly  were  empowered  to  pass  laws  but  lacked  the  authority 
to  dismiss  the  president  or  his  ministers  or  to  issue  votes  of  no 
confidence.  An  1834  amendment,  however,  provided  for  juicio 


153 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

politico  (impeachment)  of  the  ministers  for  "unacceptable  con- 
duct." 

As  established  by  the  1830  constitution,  the  Supreme  Court  of 
Justice  (Corte  Suprema  de  Justicia),  and  lesser  courts,  exercised 
the  judicial  power.  The  General  Assembly  appointed  the  members 
of  the  high  court.  The  latter — with  the  consent  of  the  Senate  in 
the  case  of  the  appellate  courts — appointed  the  members  of  the  lesser 
courts.  The  constitution  also  divided  the  country  into  departments, 
each  headed  by  a  governor  appointed  by  the  president  and  each 
having  an  advisory  body  called  a  Neighbors'  Council  (Consejo  de 
Vecinos). 

Although  the  1830  constitution  remained  in  effect  for  eighty-seven 
years,  de  facto  governments  violated  it  repeatedly.  In  the  1878-90 
period,  the  Blancos  and  Colorados  initiated  the  framework  for  a 
more  stable  system  through  understandings  called  "pacts  between 
the  parties."  This  governing  principle,  called  coparticipation  (copar- 
ticipacidn) ,  meaning  the  sharing  of  formal  political  and  informal 
bureaucratic  power,  has  been  formally  practiced  since  1872. 

In  1913  President  Jose  Batlle  y  Ordonez  (1903-07,  1911-15), 
the  father  of  modern  Uruguay,  proposed  a  constitutional  reform 
involving  the  creation  of  a  Swiss- style  collegial  executive  system 
to  be  called  the  colegiado.  A  strong  opponent  of  the  one-person, 
powerful  presidency,  Batlle  y  Ordonez  believed  that  a  collective 
executive  power  would  neutralize  the  dictatorial  intentions  of  po- 
litical leaders.  It  met  intense  opposition,  however,  not  only  from 
the  Blancos  but  also  from  members  of  his  own  Colorado  Party. 
The  proposal  was  defeated  in  1916,  but  Batlle  y  Ordonez  worked 
out  a  deal  with  a  faction  of  the  Blancos  whereby  a  compromise  sys- 
tem was  provided  for  in  the  second  constitution,  which  was  ap- 
proved by  plebiscite  on  November  25,  1917. 

In  addition  to  separating  church  and  state,  the  new  charter,  which 
did  not  become  effective  until  1919,  introduced  substantial  changes 
in  the  powers  of  the  presidency.  The  executive  power  consisted  of 
the  president,  who  controlled  foreign  relations,  national  security, 
and  agriculture,  and  the  National  Council  of  Administration  (Con- 
sejo Nacional  de  Administracion),  or  colegiado,  which  administered 
all  other  executive  governmental  functions  (industrial  relations, 
health,  public  works,  industry  and  labor,  livestock  and  agriculture, 
education,  and  the  preparation  of  the  budget).  The  colegiado,  em- 
bodying the  political  mechanism  of  coparticipation,  consisted  of 
nine  members:  six  from  the  majority  party  and  three  from  the 
minority  party.  The  first  colegiado  (1919-33)  was  thereby  established 
without  eliminating  the  office  of  president. 


154 


Government  and  Politics 


The  history  of  successive  constitutions  is  one  of  a  lengthy  strug- 
gle between  advocates  of  the  collegial  system  and  those  of  the 
presidential  system.  Although  the  1917  constitution  worked  well 
during  the  prosperous  time  after  World  War  I,  recurring  conflicts 
between  the  president  and  the  colegiado  members  made  the  execu- 
tive power  ineffective  in  coping  with  the  economic  and  social  crises 
wracking  the  country.  These  conflicts  eventually  led  to  the  presiden- 
tial coup  of  1933.  The  ad  hoc  government  suspended  the  constitu- 
tion and  appointed  a  constituent  assembly  to  draw  up  a  new  one. 

The  1934  constitution  abolished  the  colegiado  and  transferred  its 
power  to  the  president.  Nevertheless,  presidential  powers  remained 
somewhat  limited.  The  executive  power  once  again  was  exercised 
by  a  president  who  had  to  make  decisions  together  with  the 
ministers.  The  1934  charter  established  the  Council  of  Ministers 
(Consejo  de  Ministros)  as  the  body  in  which  these  decisions  were 
to  be  made.  This  council  consisted  of  the  president  and  the  cabi- 
net ministers.  The  constitution  required  the  chief  executive  to  ap- 
point three  of  the  nine  cabinet  ministers  from  among  the  members 
of  the  political  party  that  received  the  second  largest  number  of 
votes  in  the  presidential  election.  The  General  Assembly,  for  its 
part,  could  issue  votes  of  no  confidence  in  cabinet  ministers,  with 
the  approval  of  two-thirds  of  its  members. 

The  constitution  divided  the  Senate  between  the  Blancos  and 
the  Colorados  or,  as  political  scientist  Martin  Weinstein  has  pointed 
out,  between  the  Herrerist  faction  of  the  Blancos  (named  after  Luis 
Alberto  de  Herrera)  and  the  Terrist  wing  of  the  Colorados  (named 
after  Gabriel  Terra;  president,  1931-38).  The  party  that  garnered 
the  second  largest  number  of  votes  automatically  received  50  per- 
cent of  the  Senate  seats.  In  addition,  the  1934  charter  empowered 
the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  to  rule  on  the  constitutionality  of  the 
laws.  This  system,  which  lasted  eighteen  years,  further  limited  the 
power  of  the  president  and  his  government. 

Although  Uruguay  returned  to  a  more  democratic  system  in 
1942,  the  failure  of  political  sectors  to  reach  an  agreement  on  the 
proposed  constitution  drafted  that  year  resulted  in  the  postpone- 
ment of  constitutional  reform.  On  July  31,  1951,  a  formal  pact 
between  the  rightist  Batllist  faction  of  the  Colorados — the  Colorado 
and  Batllist  Union  (Union  Colorada  y  Batllista — UCB) — and  the 
Herrerist  Movement  (Movimiento  Herrerista)  of  the  Blancos  called 
for  a  plebiscite  on  constitutional  reform.  The  plebiscite  the  following 
December  16  drew  less  than  half  of  the  1.1  million  voters  to  the 
polls,  but  the  collegial  system  was  approved  by  a  small  margin. 

As  the  culmination  of  an  effort  to  reestablish  the  colegiado  and 
the  plural  executive  power,  a  fourth  constitution  was  promulgated 


155 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


on  January  25,  1952.  It  readopted  Batlle  y  Ordonez's  original 
proposal  for  coparticipation  by  creating  a  nine-member  colegiado, 
this  time  called  the  National  Council  of  Government  (Consejo  Na- 
cional  de  Gobierno),  with  six  majority-party  seats  and  three 
minority-party  seats.  The  presidency  of  the  council  rotated  among 
the  six  members  of  the  majority  party.  The  chief  executive  could 
nominate  only  four  of  the  nine  ministers  from  his  own  party  fac- 
tion; the  General  Assembly  selected  the  other  five  through  separate 
votes  in  both  chambers.  An  absolute  majority  (more  than  two- 
thirds),  however,  of  the  full  membership  of  the  two  legislative  cham- 
bers had  to  support  the  appointments.  It  thereby  ensured  that  either 
the  Colorados  or  the  Blancos  would  get  the  minority  seats  on  the 
colegiado.  The  1952  constitution  also  provided  for  impeachment  of 
the  president  by  the  General  Assembly. 

This  nine-member  colegiado,  which  headed  the  executive  branch 
from  1954  to  1967,  was  ineffective  because  the  president  lacked 
control  over  the  ministers  and  because  the  majority  was  seldom 
united.  During  most  of  this  period,  the  National  Party  held  pow- 
er, having  been  elected  in  1958  for  the  first  time  in  over  ninety 
years  and  again  in  1962  when  a  different  faction  of  the  party  was 
elected.  The  ineffectiveness  of  these  governments  caused  the  pub- 
lic to  turn  against  the  colegiado  arrangement. 

In  the  elections  of  November  27,  1966,  nearly  59  percent  of  Uru- 
guayans voted  to  amend  the  1952  constitution  and  to  reestablish 
a  presidential  system  of  government,  thus  ending  a  fifteen-year  ex- 
periment with  the  colegiado.  The  new  constitution,  which  became 
operative  on  February  15,  1967,  and  has  remained  in  effect  since 
then,  created  a  strong  one-person  presidency,  subject  to  legisla- 
tive and  judicial  checks.  In  free  and  fair  elections  held  in  1968, 
Uruguayans  approved  the  new  charter  and  elected  the  Colorado 
Party  to  power  again. 

The  1967  constitution  contains  many  of  the  provisions  of  the 
1952  charter.  However,  it  removed  some  of  the  General  Assem- 
bly's power  to  initiate  legislation  and  provided  for  automatic  ap- 
proval of  bills  under  certain  conditions  if  the  legislature  failed  to 
act.  If,  on  receiving  a  bill,  the  president  has  objections  or  com- 
ments to  make,  the  bill  must  be  returned  to  the  General  Assembly 
within  ten  days.  If  sixty  days  elapse  without  a  decision  by  the  Gener- 
al Assembly,  the  president's  objections  must  be  considered  as  ac- 
cepted. The  1967  document  also  established  the  Permanent 
Commission,  composed  of  four  senators  and  seven  representatives, 
which  exercises  certain  legislative  functions  while  the  General  As- 
sembly is  in  recess. 


156 


Government  and  Politics 


The  1967  charter  can  be  amended  by  any  of  four  different 
methods.  First,  10  percent  of  the  citizens  who  are  registered  to  vote 
can  initiate  an  amendment  if  they  present  a  detailed  proposal  to 
the  president  of  the  General  Assembly.  Second,  two-fifths  of  the 
full  membership  of  the  General  Assembly  can  approve  a  proposal 
presented  to  the  president  of  the  General  Assembly  and  submitted 
to  a  plebiscite  at  the  next  election  (a  yes  vote  of  an  absolute  majority 
of  the  full  membership  of  the  General  Assembly  is  required,  and 
this  majority  must  represent  at  least  35  percent  of  all  registered 
voters).  Third,  senators,  representatives,  and  the  president  of 
the  republic  can  present  proposed  amendments,  which  must  be 
approved  by  an  absolute  majority  of  the  full  membership  of  the  Gen- 
eral Assembly.  And  finally,  amendments  can  be  made  by  con- 
stitutional laws  requiring  the  approval  of  two-thirds  of  the  full 
membership  of  each  chamber  of  the  General  Assembly  in  the  same 
legislative  period. 

In  1976,  however,  the  military  government  issued  a  series  of  con- 
stitutional decrees  that  amended  the  1967  constitution  by  creating 
the  Council  of  the  Nation  (Consejo  de  la  Nacion)  to  serve  as  the 
supreme  governmental  body,  with  executive  and  legislative  func- 
tions. It  consisted  of  the  thirty  members  of  the  Council  of  State 
(Consejo  de  Estado,  the  body  created  by  the  regime  in  June  1973 
to  act  in  lieu  of  the  General  Assembly,  which  dissolved  by  the  re- 
gime) and  the  twenty-eight  senior  officers  of  the  armed  forces  (six- 
teen from  the  army,  six  from  the  navy,  and  six  from  the  air  force). 
The  Council  of  the  Nation  appointed  the  president  of  the  republic 
and  the  members  of  the  Council  of  State,  the  Supreme  Court  of 
Justice,  and  the  Tribunal  of  Administrative  Claims,  which  had  been 
dissolved  in  1985.  Eight  institutional  acts  substituted  for  many  of 
the  functional  provisions  and  guarantees  of  the  1967  constitution. 
For  example,  in  addition  to  giving  the  Council  of  the  Nation  the 
power  to  appoint  the  president  of  the  republic  and  to  set  general 
policy  for  the  country,  institutional  acts  deprived  previous  office- 
holders and  candidates  of  their  political  rights  and  permitted  the 
arbitrary  dismissal  of  public  employees. 

Under  the  1976  constitutional  amendments,  the  president  exer- 
cised executive  power,  acting  with  the  concurrence  of  one  or  more 
ministers  as  appropriate  or  with  the  National  Security  Council  (Con- 
sejo de  Seguridad  Nacional — Cosena).  The  Cosena  had  been  formed 
in  1973  and  consisted  of  the  commanders  of  the  army,  navy,  and 
air  force,  plus  an  additional  senior  military  officer,  and  the  ministers 
of  national  defense,  interior,  and  foreign  affairs.  It  participated  in 
any  decision  related  to  the  "national  security"  or  in  any  formula- 
tion of  overall  plans  or  objectives. 


157 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

The  constitutional  decrees  declared  generally  that  the  main- 
tenance of  the  national  security  was  of  ''exclusive  competence," 
i.e.,  the  sole  prerogative,  of  the  armed  forces.  These  decrees 
deprived  local  governments  of  all  budgetary  powers.  The  Council 
of  State  continued  to  pass  laws  that  the  executive  normally  would 
have  submitted  for  approval.  Only  the  executive  could  initiate  the 
procedure  for  approval  of  legislation  on  budgetary  or  other  mat- 
ters that  could  be  related  in  any  way  to  national  security.  The 
decrees  also  created  the  Ministry  of  Justice,  responsible  for  rela- 
tions between  the  executive  and  judicial  powers. 

In  1980  the  military  regime  drew  up  a  charter  that  would  have 
provided  for  a  strong,  continuing  role  for  the  military  along  the 
lines  of  the  1976  constitutional  decrees,  including  legitimizing  the 
Cosena's  new  role.  The  document  also  would  have  greatly  reduced 
the  roles  of  the  General  Assembly  and  political  parties.  In  a  pleb- 
iscite held  November  30,  1980,  however,  Uruguayans,  by  a  mar- 
gin of  57  percent  to  43  percent  of  the  popular  vote,  rejected  the 
new  military-drafted  constitution.  Nevertheless,  a  new  thirty-five- 
member  Council  of  State  was  installed  on  August  20,  1981,  be- 
fore President  Gregorio  Alvarez  Armelino  (1981-85)  took  office. 
Its  powers  were  expanded  to  include  responsibility  for  calling  a  con- 
stitutional assembly,  a  plebiscite,  and  general  elections. 

In  discussions  held  during  1983,  the  military  commanders  and 
the  leaders  of  the  Colorado  and  National  parties  prepared  a  new 
text  of  the  1967  constitution.  Accords  negotiated  by  the  military, 
the  Colorados  (but  not  the  Blancos),  and  most  of  the  Broad  Front 
in  July  and  August  1984  provided  for  a  return  to  democracy  without 
the  Cosena. 

Following  the  return  to  civilian  rule  in  1985,  Uruguay's  human 
rights  record  quickly  improved.  One  of  the  Sanguinetti  govern- 
ment's first  acts  in  this  area  was — with  the  approval  of  the  newly 
restored  General  Assembly — to  grant  amnesty  to  all  political 
prisoners,  who  consisted  chiefly  of  members  of  the  National  Liber- 
ation Movement-Tupamaros  (Movimiento  de  Liberation  Nacional- 
Tupamaros — MLN-T).  In  the  late  1980s,  there  were  no  credible 
reports  of  human  rights  violations,  according  to  the  United  States 
Department  of  State. 

Since  1985  Uruguay's  democratic  governments  have  respected 
the  sixty-five  articles  in  the  1967  constitution  concerned  primarily 
with  the  rights  of  citizens.  The  document  provides  for  freedom  of 
religion,  thought,  speech  and  press,  peaceful  assembly  and  associ- 
ation, collective  bargaining,  movement  within  the  country,  foreign 
travel,  emigration  and  repatriation,  respect  for  political  rights,  and 
the  inviolability  of  property  and  privacy.  The  constitution  does 


158 


Government  and  Politics 


not  provide  for  a  state  religion,  although  Roman  Catholicism 
predominates,  or  for  capital  punishment  (that  was  abolished  dur- 
ing BatUe  y  Ordonez's  second  term).  There  are  two  forms  of  citizen- 
ship: natural  (persons  born  in  Uruguay  or  those  who  were  of 
Uruguayan  parents  and  were  registered  residents)  and  legal  (in- 
dividuals established  in  Uruguay  with  at  least  three  years'  residence 
in  the  case  of  those  with  family  in  Uruguay  or  five  years'  residence 
for  those  without  family  there).  Primary  and  secondary  education 
is  both  free  and  compulsory.  Every  citizen  eighteen  years  of  age 
or  older  has  the  right  and  obligation  to  vote,  which  is  compulsory 
(see  The  Electoral  Process,  this  ch.). 

Uruguay  has  long  been  one  of  the  most  egalitarian  countries  in 
the  world.  Women's  suffrage  was  enacted  in  1932.  In  1946  a  sta- 
tute was  passed  repealing  all  laws  that  established  legal  differences 
in  the  rights  of  women.  Uruguayan  women,  who  constituted  one- 
third  of  the  work  force  in  the  1980s,  enjoyed  complete  equality  under 
the  law.  Nevertheless,  some  barriers  still  existed  in  practice  because 
of  traditional  social  patterns  and  restricted  employment  opportu- 
nities. Women  often  received  less  pay  than  men,  especially  in  less 
skilled  jobs.  By  early  1990,  very  few  women  held  high  political  po- 
sitions, but  women  had  served  in  the  cabinet,  the  Supreme  Court 
of  Justice,  and  the  diplomatic  corps,  including  at  the  ambassadorial 
level,  and  a  few  had  served  as  alternates  in  the  General  Assembly. 

Governmental  Structure 

Uruguay  is  a  republic  with  three  separate  branches  of  govern- 
ment (see  fig.  9).  The  1967  constitution  institutionalizes  a  strong 
presidency,  subject  to  legislative  and  judicial  checks.  The  electorate 
exercises  sovereignty  directly  through  elections,  initiatives,  or 
referendums  and  indirectly  through  representative  powers  estab- 
lished by  the  constitution. 

The  Executive 

Executive  power  is  exercised  by  the  president  of  the  republic, 
acting  with  the  advice  of  the  Council  of  Ministers.  The  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  republic  serves  as  the  president  of  the  General  Assem- 
bly and  the  Senate.  The  president  and  vice  president  are  elected 
for  five-year  terms  by  a  simple  majority  of  the  people  through  a 
unique  voting  system.  Candidates  must  be  at  least  thirty- five  years 
of  age,  native  born,  and  in  full  possession  of  their  civil  rights.  After 
a  period  following  their  election,  the  president  and  vice  president 
are  sworn  in  before  both  chambers  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
take  office  on  March  1 .  Neither  may  be  reelected  until  five  years 
after  the  completion  of  their  terms. 


159 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


-1 

< 

h 

-1  Q 

<  DC 

O  < 

H 

~z" 

O  O 

o 

_l  CD 

EP 

CTI 

Q 

Ui 

oc 

ro  - 

z 

1 

—I 

< 

< 

>- 

o 
_j 

z  o 

DC 

2 

IOA 

5  > 
<  o 

MA 

0-  o 

UJ  VJ 

Q 

8* 

g 

S 
I 


.<=Y0 


160 


Government  and  Politics 


The  president's  duties  include  publishing  ail  laws  and  enforc- 
ing them,  informing  the  General  Assembly  of  the  state  of  the  repub- 
lic and  of  proposed  improvements  and  reforms,  making  objections 
to  or  observations  on  bills  sent  by  the  General  Assembly,  propos- 
ing bills  to  the  chambers  or  amendments  to  laws  previously  enact- 
ed, conferring  civilian  and  military  offices,  and  removing  civil 
servants  (with  the  consent  of  the  Senate)  for  "inefficiency,  derelic- 
tion of  duty,  or  malfeasance. "  The  key  civilian  appointments  made 
by  the  president  are  cabinet  members. 

A  1986  constitutional  amendment  returned  to  the  presidency  the 
power  to  command  the  armed  forces  and  appoint  the  armed  forces 
commander.  The  chief  executive  grants  promotions  to  members 
of  the  armed  forces,  with  the  consent  of  the  Senate  for  promotions 
to  colonel  or  higher  ranks.  The  president  also  is  responsible  for 
maintaining  internal  order  and  external  security.  Although  the  con- 
stitution does  not  give  the  president  sweeping  powers  in  cases  of 
emergency,  Article  168  empowers  the  chief  executive  "to  take 
prompt  measures  of  security  in  grave  and  unforeseen  cases  of  for- 
eign attack  or  internal  disorder."  In  such  an  event,  the  president 
is  required  to  explain  his  action  to  a  joint  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  or,  if  it  is  in  recess,  to  the  Permanent  Commission 
within  twenty-four  hours. 

Other  presidential  powers  include  decreeing  the  severance  of 
diplomatic  relations  with  another  country  and  declaring  war  if  ar- 
bitration or  other  pacific  means  to  avoid  it  are  unsuccessful.  The 
president  appoints  ambassadors  and  other  foreign  service  diplo- 
matic personnel.  The  chief  executive  may  not  leave  the  country 
for  more  than  forty-eight  hours  without  authorization  from  the 
Senate.  The  president  may  not  be  impeached  unless  found  guilty 
of  violations  of  articles  of  the  constitution  or  other  serious  offenses. 

The  Council  of  Ministers  includes  the  cabinet  ministers  (appoint- 
ed by  the  president)  and  the  president  of  the  Central  Bank  of  Uru- 
guay. Each  appointee  must  be  approved  by  a  simple  majority  in 
each  chamber  of  the  General  Assembly.  Cabinet  members  must 
be  native-born  citizens  in  full  possession  of  their  civil  rights  and 
at  least  thirty  years  of  age.  They  may  be  removed  from  office  by 
impeachment  proceedings  initiated  by  the  Chamber  of  Represen- 
tatives and  approved  by  the  Senate. 

When  all  the  cabinet  ministers  or  their  deputies  meet  and  act 
jointly,  the  body  is  known  as  the  Council  of  Ministers.  Presided 
over  by  the  president  of  the  republic,  who  has  a  vote,  the  Council 
of  Ministers  is  responsible  for  all  acts  of  government  and  adminis- 
tration. In  addition,  a  number  of  autonomous  entities  (autonomous 
agencies  or  state  enterprises;  see  Glossary)  and  decentralized  services 


161 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


are  important  in  government  administration  (see  Public  Adminis- 
tration, this  ch.). 

The  principal  duties  of  the  cabinet  members  are  to  enforce  the 
constitution,  laws,  decrees,  and  resolutions;  to  formulate  and  sub- 
mit for  the  consideration  of  superior  authority  any  laws,  decrees, 
and  resolutions  they  deem  appropriate;  to  effect — within  the  limits 
of  their  functions — the  payment  of  the  national  debt;  to  propose 
the  appointment  or  discharge  of  employees  of  their  ministries;  and 
to  perform  any  other  functions  entrusted  to  them  by  laws  or  by 
measures  adopted  by  the  executive  power.  They  may  attend  the 
sessions  of  either  chamber  of  the  General  Assembly  and  their  respec- 
tive standing  committees,  and  they  may  take  part  in  debate,  but 
they  may  not  vote. 

The  Legislature 

The  bicameral  General  Assembly  enacts  laws  and  regulates  the 
administration  of  justice.  The  General  Assembly  consists  of  the 
thirty-member  Senate — thirty  senators  and  the  vice  president  of 
the  republic,  who  presides  over  it  as  well  as  the  General  Assembly 
and  has  both  a  voice  and  a  vote  in  Senate  deliberations — and  the 
ninety-nine-member  Chamber  of  Representatives.  If  the  vice  presi- 
dent ever  assumes  the  presidency,  the  senator  heading  the  list  of 
the  party  that  received  the  most  votes  in  the  last  election  will  suc- 
ceed to  the  presidency  of  the  Senate. 

Members  of  both  legislative  bodies  are  directly  elected  every  five 
years  by  a  system  of  proportional  representation.  The  Chamber 
of  Representatives  represents  the  nineteen  administrative  subdi- 
visions of  the  country,  with  each  department  (departamento)  having 
at  least  two  representatives.  The  members  of  the  Senate  are  also 
elected  by  the  people,  but  with  the  entire  nation  representing  a  single 
electoral  district.  Members  of  the  General  Assembly  must  be  natural 
citizens  or  legal  citizens  with  seven  years'  exercise  of  their  rights. 
Senators  must  be  at  least  thirty  years  of  age,  and  representatives 
at  least  twenty-five  years  of  age.  Uruguay  does  not  have  a  residency 
requirement  for  election  to  the  Senate  or  the  Chamber  of  Represen- 
tatives. Consequently,  almost  all  of  the  country's  politicians  have 
lived  and  worked  in  Montevideo.  Military  and  civil  service  per- 
sonnel or  public  officials  may  not  be  candidates  for  either  cham- 
ber of  the  General  Assembly  unless  they  resign  their  positions  at 
least  three  months  before  the  election.  In  1988  there  were  no  fe- 
male members  of  the  General  Assembly,  but  several  served  as  al- 
ternates. 

The  Chamber  of  Representatives  can  impeach  any  member  of 
either  chamber,  the  president,  the  vice  president,  cabinet  ministers, 


162 


President  Lacalle 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Uruguay,  Washington 


163 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

judges  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice,  and  other  judges.  The 
Senate  is  responsible  for  trying  these  impeachment  cases  and  can 
deprive  a  person  of  a  post  by  a  two-thirds  vote  of  its  membership. 
In  addition,  the  Senate,  in  session  from  mid-March  to  mid- 
December,  spends  much  time  considering  nominations  for,  appoint- 
ments to,  and  removals  from  office  submitted  by  the  executive. 
In  other  respects,  the  Senate  and  the  Chamber  of  Representatives 
have  equal  powers  and  duties.  Members  of  either  of  the  two  cham- 
bers can  initiate  a  bill.  Both  chambers  must  approve  a  proposed 
bill  before  it  can  be  sent  to  the  executive  power  to  be  published. 
The  latter  branch,  however,  has  ten  days  to  make  objections  to 
or  observations  on  the  bill.  If  the  president  objects  to  only  part  of 
a  bill,  the  General  Assembly  can  enact  the  other  part. 

Among  the  most  important  duties  of  the  Chamber  of  Represen- 
tatives— in  joint  session  with  the  Senate — are  the  election  of  the 
members  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  and  three  quasi-judicial 
autonomous  entities:  the  Accounts  Tribunal,  the  Contentious- 
Administrative  Tribunal,  and  the  Electoral  Court.  These  ordinary 
administrative  courts  hear  cases  involving  the  functioning  of  state 
administration.  In  addition,  the  Chamber  of  Representatives  is 
empowered  to  grant  pardons  and  settle  disputes  concerning  leg- 
islation on  which  the  two  chambers  disagree.  The  Chamber  of 
Representatives  also  has  the  exclusive  right  to  impeach  members 
of  both  chambers,  the  president  and  vice  president  of  the  repub- 
lic, the  cabinet  ministers,  and  members  of  the  courts  for  violations 
of  the  constitution  or  other  serious  offenses.  Impeachment  proceed- 
ings must  be  tried  before  the  Senate. 

The  Accounts  Tribunal,  which  is  a  functionally  autonomous 
appendage  of  the  General  Assembly,  is  responsible  for  determin- 
ing taxes  and  reporting  on  the  accounts  and  budgets  of  all  the  state 
organs.  It  is  authorized  to  intervene  in  all  matters  relating  to  the 
financial  activities  of  the  state  organs,  departmental  governments, 
and  autonomous  agencies,  and  it  is  authorized  to  report  to  the 
appropriate  authority  all  irregularities  in  the  management  of  pub- 
lic funds  or  infractions  of  budgetary  and  accounting  laws.  It  is  au- 
thorized to  certify  the  legality  of  expenditures  and  payments  and 
append  pertinent  objections  whenever  necessary.  In  the  depart- 
mental governments  and  autonomous  agencies,  officials  acting 
under  the  supervision  of  the  tribunal  perform  the  same  duties.  The 
tribunal's  opinions  cover  all  the  organs  of  the  state,  including 
departmental  governments.  An  annual  report  must  be  submit- 
ted to  the  General  Assembly.  The  Accounts  Tribunal  consists  of 
seven  members  appointed  by  a  two-thirds  vote  of  the  full  mem- 
bership of  the  General  Assembly.  Their  elective  qualifications  are 


164 


Government  and  Politics 


the  same  as  those  of  a  senator.  Their  term  of  office  ends  when  the 
succeeding  General  Assembly  makes  new  appointments,  but  they 
may  be  reelected. 

The  Contentious- Administrative  Tribunal  hears  pleas  for  the  nul- 
lification of  final  administrative  acts  that  are  considered  contrary 
to  law  or  an  abuse  of  authority  made  by  the  administration,  state 
organs,  departmental  governments,  autonomous  entities,  and  de- 
centralized services.  It  also  has  jurisdiction  over  the  final  adminis- 
trative acts  of  the  governments  of  the  departments  and  of  the 
autonomous  entities.  Its  functions  are  only  to  appraise  the  act  it- 
self and  to  confirm  or  annul  it,  without  alteration.  Its  decisions 
have  effect  only  in  the  cases  before  it.  The  Contentious- Adminis- 
trative Tribunal  can  act  in  cases  of  conflict  of  jurisdiction  based 
on  legislation  and  on  differences  that  arise  among  the  executive, 
the  departmental  governments,  and  the  autonomous  entities. 

The  qualifications  necessary  for  election  to  the  Contentious- 
Administrative  Tribunal,  the  manner  of  appointment,  the  remu- 
neration, and  the  term  of  office  are  the  same  as  those  established 
for  the  members  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice.  The  tribunal 
is  composed  of  five  judges  appointed  by  the  General  Assembly  for 
ten-year  terms.  It  also  has  an  ' 'attorney  general  for  administra- 
tive claims"  (appointed  by  the  president),  whose  qualifications, 
remuneration,  and  term  of  office  are  decided  by  the  tribunal.  The 
attorney  general  is  heard  at  the  final  hearing  of  all  matters 
within  the  jurisdiction  of  the  tribunal. 

The  Electoral  Court,  a  quasi-judicial  autonomous  entity,  super- 
vises national,  departmental,  and  municipal  elections  and  has  com- 
petence over  all  electoral  acts  and  procedures.  It  rules  in  the  last 
instance  on  appeals  and  complaints;  it  also  judges  the  election  of 
all  the  elective  posts  and  the  holding  of  a  plebiscite  (on  constitu- 
tional issues)  or  referendum  (on  political  issues).  Of  the  Electoral 
Court's  nine  members,  the  General  Assembly  appoints  five  and 
their  alternates  by  a  two-thirds  vote  in  joint  session  and  elects  the 
other  four  members  and  their  alternates  equally  from  the  two 
political  parties  having  the  highest  number  of  votes.  The  court  has 
eighteen  alternates  in  addition  to  the  nine  full  members.  Mem- 
bers serve  four  years  until  the  succeeding  legislature  selects  their 
replacements  (see  The  Electoral  Process,  this  ch.). 

The  judiciary 

Like  all  previous  charters,  the  1967  constitution  establishes  the 
judicial  branch  as  an  independent  power  of  the  state.  The  Supreme 
Court  of  Justice  heads  the  judiciary,  both  civilian  and  military. 
Lower  civilian  courts  include  six  appellate  courts  (for  civil  matters, 


165 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

criminal  matters,  and  labor  matters),  courts  of  first  instance  (some- 
times referred  to  as  lawyer  courts  \juzgados  letrados]),  and  justice 
of  the  peace  courts. 

During  the  military  regime  (1973-85),  the  Ministry  of  Justice 
administered  the  courts,  and  military  officers  were  appointed  to 
the  highest  courts.  As  a  result  of  the  1984  Naval  Club  Pact,  which 
clipped  the  powers  of  the  military  courts,  the  judicial  branch 
regained  its  autonomy  when  Sanguinetti  assumed  office  on  March 
1,  1985.  That  May  the  General  Assembly,  despite  the  opposition 
of  the  Colorado  Party,  declared  all  posts  of  the  Supreme  Court  of 
Justice  vacant  on  the  grounds  that  none  of  the  justices  had  been 
legally  appointed.  Accordingly,  all  of  the  military  officers  appointed 
by  the  military  regime  to  the  high  court  or  the  appellate  courts  re- 
tired from  their  positions.  Sanguinetti  then  formally  abolished  the 
Ministry  of  Justice,  retaining  only  the  minister  of  justice  post. 
Nevertheless,  there  was  a  continuing  public  debate  during  his  ad- 
ministration over  the  need  to  reform  the  legal  and  judicial  systems. 

Located  in  Montevideo,  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  manages 
the  entire  judicial  system.  It  prepares  budgets  for  the  judiciary  and 
submits  them  to  the  General  Assembly  for  approval,  proposes  all 
legislation  regarding  the  functioning  of  the  courts,  appoints  judges 
to  the  appellate  courts,  and  nominates  all  other  judges  and  judi- 
cial officials.  It  has  the  power  to  modify  any  decisions  made  by 
the  appellate  courts  and  is  the  only  court  allowed  to  declare  the 
unconstitutionality  of  laws  passed  by  the  General  Assembly.  It  alone 
decides  on  conflicts  affecting  diplomats  and  international  treaties, 
the  execution  of  the  rulings  of  foreign  courts,  and  relations  among 
agencies  of  the  government.  The  president  of  the  Supreme  Court 
of  Justice  is  empowered  to  attend  meetings  of  the  committees  of 
both  chambers  of  the  General  Assembly  and  has  a  voice  in  discus- 
sion but  has  no  vote. 

A  conference  of  the  two  chambers  of  the  General  Assembly  ap- 
points the  five  members  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice.  The 
justices  must  be  between  forty  and  seventy  years  of  age,  native- 
born  citizens  in  full  possession  of  their  civil  rights,  or  legal  citizens 
with  ten  years'  exercise  of  their  rights  and  twenty-five  years  of  resi- 
dence in  the  country.  They  also  must  have  been  a  lawyer  for  ten 
years  or  must  have  been  a  judge  or  member  of  the  Public  Minis- 
try for  eight  years.  (The  Public  Ministry  consists  of  the  public  at- 
torneys, headed  by  the  "attorney  general  of  the  court  and  attorney 
of  the  country, ' '  who  acts  independently  before  the  Supreme  Court 
of  Justice.)  Members  serve  for  ten  years  and  may  be  reelected 
after  a  break  of  five  years.  At  the  appointment  of  the  president, 
two  military  justices  serve  on  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  on 


166 


18th  of  July  Avenue  in  downtown  Montevideo 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 

an  ad  hoc  basis  and  participate  only  in  cases  involving  the  mili- 
tary (see  Military  Justice,  ch.  5). 

Each  of  the  appellate  courts,  also  located  in  Montevideo,  has 
three  judges  appointed  by  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  with  the 
consent  of  the  Senate.  To  be  a  member,  one  must  be  at  least  thirty- 
five  years  of  age,  a  native-born  citizen  or  legal  citizen  for  seven 
years,  and  a  lawyer  with  at  least  eight  years  of  experience  or  other- 
wise engaged  in  a  law-related  profession  for  at  least  six  years.  An 
appellate  court  judge  is  obliged  to  retire  by  age  seventy.  These  courts 
do  not  have  original  jurisdiction  but  hear  appeals  from  lower  courts. 
The  appellate  courts  divide  responsibilities  for  civil  matters  (in- 
cluding matters  concerning  commerce,  customs,  and  minors),  as 
well  as  for  criminal  and  labor  affairs. 

In  Montevideo  Department,  the  judges  of  first  instance,  some- 
times referred  to  as  lawyer  judges  (jueces  letrados),  decide  on  the  ap- 
peals to  lower-court  rulings.  In  1990  Montevideo  Department  had 
forty  judges  of  first  instance,  including  eighteen  who  decided  on 
civil  matters,  four  on  minors,  three  on  customs,  ten  on  criminal 
cases,  and  five  on  labor  cases. 

Outside  Montevideo  Department,  the  first  decision  on  all  cases 
of  civil,  family,  customs,  criminal,  or  labor  law  is  submitted  to  the 
municipal  judges  of  first  instance.  Each  department  has  up  to 


167 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


five  municipal  judges  of  first  instance,  located  in  the  major  cities. 
They  rule  on  most  minor  cases,  with  the  exception  of  those  that 
are  within  the  competence  of  the  justices  of  the  peace.  Both  muni- 
cipal judges  of  first  instance  and  the  Montevideo  Department  judges 
of  first  instance  must  have  previously  served  as  justices  of  the  peace. 

At  the  lowest  level,  each  of  the  country's  224  judicial  divisions 
has  a  justice  of  the  peace  court.  The  Supreme  Court  of  Justice 
appoints  the  224  justices  of  the  peace  for  four-year  terms.  They 
must  be  at  least  twenty-five  years  of  age,  native-born  citizens  or 
legal  citizens  for  two  years,  and  in  full  possession  of  their  civil  rights. 
Those  who  serve  in  Montevideo  Department  and  the  capitals  and 
major  cities  of  other  departments  must  be  lawyers;  those  in  rural 
areas  must  be  either  lawyers  or  notaries.  Their  jurisdiction  is  limited 
to  cases  involving  eviction,  breach  of  contract,  collection  of  rent, 
and  all  small-claims  commercial  and  business  cases. 

The  law  recognizes  only  one  category  of  lawyer.  In  order  to  prac- 
tice law,  an  individual  must  first  obtain  the  degree  of  law  and  so- 
cial sciences  from  the  Faculty  of  Law  and  Social  Sciences  of  the 
University  of  the  Republic  (also  known  as  the  University  of  Mon- 
tevideo). The  degree  is  granted  by  the  university  after  the  success- 
ful completion  of  six  years  of  studies.  Candidates  must  be  at  least 
twenty-one  years  of  age,  listed  in  the  Register  of  Lawyers  main- 
tained by  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice,  not  be  under  indictment 
for  a  crime  penalized  by  corporal  punishment,  and  not  have  been 
convicted  of  a  crime.  A  public  defender  system  was  established  in 
1980  with  the  placing  of  lawyers  in  all  courts  to  assist  those  unable 
to  pay  for  their  services.  Public  defenders — appointed  jointly  by 
the  president  and  the  minister  of  justice — protect  the  society's  in- 
terests. 

Public  Administration 

Uruguay  traditionally  has  had  a  sizable  civil  service  organization. 
Civil  service  regulations  determine  conditions  for  admission  to  the 
service  as  a  career.  In  accordance  with  these  regulations  for  service 
in  the  national  government,  departmental  governments  adopted 
regulations  for  their  own  civil  service  personnel.  Permanent  career 
status  is  achieved  after  a  fairly  short  probationary  period. 

The  Sanguinetti  government  reestablished  the  National  Office  of 
the  Civil  Service  (Oficina  Nacional  del  Servicio  Civil — ONSC), 
which  the  military  regime  had  abolished,  as  the  technical  advisory 
organ  specializing  in  administrative  reform  matters.  The  ONSC  pub- 
licizes its  ideas  on  change  and  reform  by  sponsoring  academic,  public, 
and  international  seminars  and  roundtables. 


168 


Government  and  Politics 


The  ONSC's  duties  include  controlling  the  entrance  of  person- 
nel into  the  public  administration  and  streamlining  public  institu- 
tions. Under  Sanguinetti,  the  ONSC  also  implemented  course 
requirements  for  civil  service  managers  and,  with  the  assistance 
of  France's  National  School  of  Public  Administration  (Ecole  Na- 
tionale  d' Administration  Publique),  created  a  "training  course  for 
high  executives  of  the  central  administration."  During  the  first 
twenty  years  since  its  creation  in  1969,  the  ONSC  trained  or  pro- 
vided technical  assistance  to  some  4,000  public  employees,  more 
than  one-third  of  them  between  1986  and  1988. 

Following  ONSC  guidelines,  the  Sanguinetti  government  re- 
structured the  civil  service  and  reassigned  1,787  workers.  At  the 
end  of  1988,  the  state  employed  a  total  of  271,124  workers  (ap- 
proximately 20  percent  of  the  labor  force),  who  included  1,281 
members  of  the  legislative  branch,  106,455  members  of  the  execu- 
tive branch,  5,132  members  of  the  judicial  branch,  117,423  mem- 
bers of  the  autonomous  entities,  and  40,833  members  of  the 
departmental  governments. 

Over  twenty  autonomous  entities  administer  certain  national  in- 
dustrial and  commercial  services  (see  table  14,  Appendix).  These 
agencies  are  divided  into  two  general  classifications:  the  first  is  con- 
cerned with  education,  welfare,  and  culture;  the  second,  with  in- 
dustry and  commerce. 

Local  Government 

Uruguay's  administrative  subdivisions  consist  of  nineteen  depart- 
ments (departamentos) ,  which  are  subordinate  to  the  central  govern- 
ment and  responsible  for  local  administration.  They  enforce  national 
laws  and  administer  the  nation's  social  and  educational  policies  and 
institutions  within  their  departments.  These  departments  have  limit- 
ed taxing  powers,  but  they  can  borrow  funds  and  acquire  property. 
They  also  have  the  power  to  establish  unpaid  five-member  local 
boards  or  town  councils  in  municipalities  other  than  the  depart- 
mental capital  if  the  population  is  large  enough  to  warrant  such 
a  body. 

Executive  authority  is  vested  in  a  governor  (intendente) ,  who 
administers  the  department,  and  in  a  thirty-one-member  depart- 
mental board  (junta  departmental),  which  carries  out  legislative  func- 
tions. These  functions  include  approval  of  the  departmental  budget 
and  judicial  actions,  such  as  impeachment  proceedings  against 
departmental  officials,  including  the  governor.  At  the  municipal 
level,  a  mayor  (intendente  municipal)  assumes  executive  and  admin- 
istrative duties,  carrying  out  resolutions  made  by  the  local  board 
(whose  members  are  appointed  on  the  basis  of  proportional 


169 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


representation  of  the  political  parties).  The  governor  is  required 
to  comply  with  and  enforce  the  constitution  and  the  laws  and  to 
promulgate  the  decrees  enacted  by  the  departmental  board.  The 
governor  is  authorized  to  prepare  the  budget,  submit  it  for  ap- 
proval to  the  departmental  board,  appoint  the  board's  employees, 
and,  if  necessary,  discipline  or  suspend  them.  The  governor  repre- 
sents the  department  in  its  relations  with  the  national  government 
and  other  departmental  governments  and  in  the  negotiation  of  con- 
tracts with  public  or  private  agencies. 

Like  the  governor,  the  members  of  the  departmental  board  and 
the  mayor  are  elected  for  five-year  terms  in  direct,  popular  elec- 
tions. A  governor  can  be  reelected  only  once,  and  candidates  for 
the  post  must  meet  the  same  requirements  as  those  for  a  senator, 
in  addition  to  being  a  native  of  the  department  or  a  resident  there- 
in for  at  least  three  years  before  assuming  office.  Departmental 
board  members  must  be  at  least  twenty-three  years  of  age,  native 
born  (or  a  legal  citizen  for  at  least  three  years),  and  a  native  of 
the  department  (or  a  resident  for  at  least  three  years). 

The  board  sits  in  the  capital  city  of  each  department  and  exer- 
cises jurisdiction  throughout  the  entire  territory  of  the  department. 
It  can  issue  decrees  and  resolutions  that  it  deems  necessary  either 
on  the  suggestion  of  the  governor  or  on  its  own  initiative.  It  can 
approve  budgets,  fix  the  amount  of  taxes,  request  the  interven- 
tion of  the  Accounts  Tribunal  for  advice  concerning  departmental 
finances  or  administration,  and  remove  from  office — at  the  request 
of  the  governor — members  of  nonelective  local  departmental  boards. 
The  board  also  supervises  local  public  services;  public  health;  and 
primary,  secondary,  preparatory,  industrial,  and  artistic  educa- 
tion. Although  Montevideo  is  the  smallest  department  in  terms  of 
area  (divided  into  twenty-three  geographic  zones  that  generally  coin- 
cide with  the  electoral  zones),  its  departmental  board  had  sixty- 
five  members  in  1990;  all  other  departments  had  thirty-one-member 
boards  and  a  five-member  executive  council  appointed  by  the 
departmental  board,  with  proportional  representation  from  the  prin- 
cipal political  parties. 

The  Electoral  Process 

Uruguayans  take  voting  very  seriously.  Voting,  which  is  obliga- 
tory, is  not  restricted  by  race,  sex,  religion,  or  economic 
status.  Other  rules  governing  suffrage  include  mandatory  inscrip- 
tion in  the  Civil  Register  and  a  system  of  proportional  represen- 
tation. These  rules  also  include  prohibition  of  political  activity  (with 
the  exception  of  voting)  by  judicial  magistrates,  directors  of  the 
autonomous  entities,  and  members  of  the  armed  forces  and  police. 


170 


Government  and  Politics 


In  addition,  the  president  of  the  republic  and  members  of  the  Elec- 
toral Court  are  not  permitted  to  serve  as  political  party  officials 
or  engage  in  political  election  propaganda;  all  electoral  boards  must 
be  elected;  a  two- thirds  vote  of  the  full  membership  of  each  cham- 
ber is  needed  to  adopt  any  new  law  concerning  the  Civil  Register 
or  elections;  and  all  national  and  local  elections  are  to  be  held 
every  five  years  on  the  last  Sunday  in  November. 

Uruguay's  electoral  processes  are  among  the  most  complicated 
known.  The  unusual  Uruguayan  electoral  system  combines 
primaries  and  a  general  election  in  one  event.  Primary  and  gener- 
al elections  combine  proportional  representation  with  a  "double 
simultaneous  vote"  (doble  voto  simultdneo).  This  system,  as  estab- 
lished by  the  Elections  Law  of  1925,  allows  each  party's  sub-lemas, 
or  factions,  to  run  rival  lists  of  candidates. 

Traditionally,  under  Uruguayan  law  the  results  of  political  elec- 
tions are  tabulated  in  an  unusual  fashion.  Under  the  1982  Politi- 
cal Parties  Law,  each  party  is  allowed  to  present  three  tickets,  or 
single  candidates,  each  representing  a  different  sub-lema,  for  ex- 
ecutive and  legislative  posts,  and  these  factions  do  not  need  the 
party's  approval  of  their  candidates.  A  voter  selects  a  faction  and 
a  list  of  candidates  within  that  sub-lema.  The  votes  of  all  the  factions 
are  given  to  the  party  (lemd)  to  which  they  belong,  and  the  pres- 
idency goes  to  the  candidate  of  the  sub-lema  that  receives  the  most 
votes  within  the  winning  party.  Thus,  even  if  a  given  ticket  gar- 
ners more  votes  than  any  other  slate  running  for  election,  it  can- 
not win  unless  its  party  also  wins.  The  governing  party  is  actually 
the  majority  group  within  the  party  that  won  the  last  elections.  The 
disadvantages  of  this  system  are  that  it  discourages  intraparty  selec- 
tivity in  choosing  presidential  candidates,  often  allows  politicians 
who  receive  only  a  minority  of  the  vote  to  rise  to  power,  blocks 
the  rise  of  new  parties  and  new  leadership  while  encouraging  frac- 
tionalization,  and  often  results  in  a  multiplicity  of  alliances  or  com- 
binations of  national  and  local  candidates  for  office. 

Election  of  members  of  the  General  Assembly  is  even  more 
complicated.  Election  of  the  ninety-nine  members  of  the  Cham- 
ber of  Representatives  is  based  on  the  population  in  the  coun- 
try's nineteen  departments,  whereas  the  thirty  members  of  the 
Senate  are  elected  at  large  from  the  nation.  Seats  are  allocated 
on  the  basis  of  each  party's  share  of  the  total  vote,  but  each  party 
usually  has  various  lists  of  candidates,  among  whom  prior  agree- 
ments have  been  made  to  unify  or  transfer  votes.  As  a  result,  there 
have  been  frequent  complaints  that  voters  never  know  for  whom 
they  are  ultimately  voting  in  the  congressional  races.  Electoral 


171 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

fraud,  however,  is  precluded  by  the  traditional  method  of  decen- 
tralized vote-counting  at  thousands  of  vote-counting  tables. 

In  addition,  the  Electoral  Court  supervises  the  entire  registra- 
tion and  voting  process,  registers  parties  and  candidates,  has  final 
jurisdiction  in  all  election  disputes,  and  supervises  the  functioning 
of  the  various  departmental  electoral  boards.  It  also  supervises  the 
National  Electoral  Office  in  Montevideo,  which  has  the  responsi- 
bility for  organizing  and  maintaining  the  Civil  Register  of  all  eligible 
voters  in  the  country.  One  Electoral  Court  exists  at  the  national 
level  and  one  in  each  department  capital. 

Before  an  election,  the  General  Assembly  allocates  a  sum  of 
money  for  the  Electoral  Court  to  distribute  among  the  political  par- 
ties in  proportion  to  the  number  of  votes  a  party  received  in  the 
last  election.  These  funds  help  to  defray  campaign  costs.  Party- 
proposed  ballots  must  be  presented  to  the  Electoral  Court  at  least 
twenty  days  prior  to  an  election.  After  making  the  final  verifica- 
tion of  ballots,  the  Electoral  Court  can  annul  an  election,  but  only 
if  gross  irregularities  are  found. 

Political  Dynamics 

Political  Parties 

The  Colorado  and  National  parties  and,  to  a  lesser  extent,  the 
Broad  Front  coalition,  were  the  three  major  political  entities  in  1990. 
Until  the  1971  elections,  the  Colorado  and  National  parties  together 
accounted  for  90  percent  of  the  votes  cast;  the  remaining  10  per- 
cent of  the  votes  were  divided  among  various  small  parties.  Some 
of  the  minor  parties  have  followed  the  lead  of  the  major  parties 
and  sought  to  enhance  their  electoral  chances  through  coalitions, 
such  as  the  Broad  Front.  The  traditional  two-party  system  was 
threatened  for  the  first  time  by  the  Broad  Front's  victory  in  the 
Montevideo  municipal  elections  in  1989,  its  first  win  on  the  na- 
tional level. 

As  previously  noted,  a  system  of  coparticipation  (coparticipaciori) 
in  the  government  between  the  ruling  party  and  the  principal  op- 
position has  characterized  Uruguayan  politics  since  1872.  According 
to  Weinstein,  this  term  best  described  Uruguay's  unique  political 
process  and  was  still  widely  used  among  Uruguayans  in  the  1980s. 
Coparticipation  meant  that  the  two  traditional  parties  and  their 
members  were  entitled  to  divide  and  share  the  governing  of  the 
country.  Indeed,  in  order  to  govern,  the  majority  party  had  to  make 
alliances  with  other  parties  because  being  the  majority  party  in  a 
proportional  representation  system  did  not  necessarily  mean  that 


172 


Government  and  Politics 


it  had  a  simple  majority  in  the  General  Assembly.  For  example, 
the  Colorado  Party  almost  always  governed  in  alliance  with  a  sec- 
tion of  the  National  Party.  During  the  first  years  of  the  Sanguinetti 
administration,  the  National  Party  refrained  from  systematic  op- 
position, thereby  helping  to  ease  the  legislative  passage  of  govern- 
ment policies.  The  Colorado  Party  was  expected  to  do  the  same 
for  the  Lacalle  government.  Sharing  political  power  also  has  been 
determined  by  the  principle  of  parity  (paridad),  meaning  that  the 
losing  party's  participation  in  the  government  was  based  on  the 
relative  electoral  strength  of  the  two  parties. 

Each  party  permitted  internal  ideological  divisions  because  each 
party  could  run  multiple  presidential  candidates  and  its  own  slate 
of  legislative  nominees.  Factions,  or  sub-lemas,  fielded  different  lists 
of  candidates  for  general  elections.  Voters  expressed  a  preference 
for  a  list  rather  than  an  individual  candidate,  and  they  voted  for 
a  party.  The  winning  list  of  the  party  that  received  the  most  votes 
won  the  presidency  and  a  percentage  of  the  seats  in  the  Senate  and 
the  Chamber  of  Representatives  corresponding  to  the  percentage 
of  votes  that  the  party  as  a  whole  received.  National  and  depart- 
mental elections  were  held  simultaneously  every  five  years.  Cam- 
paigns were  funded  in  part  by  government  subsidies  given  to  the 
parties  and  factions  in  accordance  with  their  voting  strength  in  the 
previous  election. 

Traditional  Parties 

Uruguay  is  one  of  the  few  Latin  American  countries  with  two 
political  groupings — the  Colorado  and  National  parties — as  old  as 
the  country  itself.  Most  Uruguayans  consider  themselves  either 
Colorados  or  Blancos  from  birth,  and  affiliation  with  one  of  the 
two  major  parties  or  their  major  sub-lemas  is  a  part  of  one's  fam- 
ily heritage.  The  two  parties  traditionally  maintained  a  rough 
equilibrium,  and  their  factions  had  their  own  leaders,  candidates, 
followers,  policies,  and  organizational  structures.  These  sub-lemas 
embraced  persons  of  various  political  orientations  and  social  back- 
grounds. In  general,  however,  the  Colorado  Party  traditionally  was 
associated  with  the  city,  labor  unions,  and  secularist  and  "progres- 
sive" movements,  whereas  the  National  Party  identified  with  the 
interior  farming  groups  and  the  more  religious  and  conservative 
groups. 

The  cleavage  between  Montevideo  and  the  rural  interior  in- 
fluenced party  affiliation  and  political  attitudes  to  a  greater  extent 
than  did  differences  in  social  status  and  income.  (The  coastal  region 
often  held  the  balance  of  power  between  Montevideo  and  the  in- 
terior.) Although  three-fourths  of  all  voters  remained  loyal  to  the 


173 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

traditional  parties  in  the  1984  elections,  the  support  of  these  par- 
ties in  Montevideo  weakened  gradually  during  the  1980s.  The 
decline  of  the  National  Party  in  Montevideo  was  the  most  pro- 
nounced; it  won  none  of  the  capital's  twenty- three  electoral  zones 
in  1984  and  made  no  headway  against  the  Broad  Front  in  1989. 

Despite  internal  fractionalization,  both  traditional  parties  main- 
tained the  structures  typical  of  more  cohesive  modern  parties,  in- 
cluding conventions,  general  assemblies,  party  steering  committees, 
and  caucuses.  The  fundamental  units  of  the  factions  of  both  par- 
ties were  the  neighborhood  clubs,  guided  and  controlled  by  profes- 
sional politicians. 

Vague  ideological  differences  between  the  major  parties  still  ex- 
isted in  the  1980s,  but  the  differences  involved  not  so  much  polit- 
ics as  allegiance  to  certain  leaders  and  traditions.  Although  the 
Colorados  traditionally  were  more  liberal  than  the  Blancos,  both 
parties  had  liberal  and  conservative  factions.  In  the  General  Assem- 
bly, the  left  wings  of  both  parties  often  lined  up  in  opposition  to 
both  right  wings  on  important  votes.  The  Colorados  also  were  more 
anticlerical  in  the  early  twentieth  century,  but  this  distinction  lost 
most  of  its  significance  as  both  parties  broadened  their  bases  of  sup- 
port. The  urban-based  Colorados  were  considered  more  cosmo- 
politan in  outlook  than  the  rural-based,  tradition-oriented,  and 
economically  conservative  Blancos.  In  general,  the  followers  of 
Batlle  y  Ordonez  in  the  Colorado  Party  were  more  willing  than 
the  Blanco  leadership  to  undertake  political,  social,  and  economic 
innovations. 

The  Colorado  and  National  parties  each  had  various  sub-lemas 
in  late  1990.  The  Colorado  Party's  factions  included  the  right-of- 
center  United  Batllism  (Batllismo  Unido — BU),  which  was  in  the 
majority  for  thirty  years  until  August  1990;  the  left-of-center  BU 
sector,  called  the  Social  Action  Movement  (Movimiento  de  Ac- 
cion  Social — MAS),  led  by  Hugo  Fernandez  Faingold;  Unity  and 
Reform  (Unidad  y  Reforma),  or  List  15,  led  by  Jorge  Batlle  Ibafiez; 
the  antimilitary  Freedom  and  Change  (Libertad  y  Cambio),  or  List 
85,  led  by  Enrique  E.  Tarigo,  Sanguinetti's  vice  president;  the  In- 
dependent Batllist  Faction  (Corriente  Batllista  Independiente — 
CBI),  led  by  Senator  Manuel  Flores  Silva;  Victor  Vaillant's 
"progressive"  Batllist  Reaffirmation  Movement  (Movimiento  de 
Reafirmacion  Batllista — MRB),  a  CBI  splinter  group;  the  rightist 
Colorado  and  Batllist  Union  (Union  Colorada  y  Batllista — UCB), 
or  List  123;  and  Democratic  Traditionalism  (Tradicionalismo 
Democratico— Trademo),  a  sector  of  the  National  Republican  As- 
sociation (Asociacion  Nacional  Republicana — ANR). 


174 


Government  and  Politics 


The  UCB  was  subdivided  into  three  main  groups:  the  minority 
right-wing  and  promilitary  Pachequist  faction  led  by  Jorge  Pacheco 
Areco  (president,  1967-72);  the  sector  led  by  Pablo  Millor  Coc- 
caro,  Pacheco 's  principal  rival;  and  the  National  Integrationist 
Movement  (Movimiento  Integracionista  Nacional — MIN),  which 
was  formed  in  early  1986  and  led  by  Senator  Pedro  W.  Cersosimo. 
Following  the  1989  elections,  Millor' s  sector  caused  a  political  storm 
within  the  UCB  when  it  announced  that  it  would  henceforth  operate 
autonomously,  although  still  recognizing  Pacheco 's  leadership. 
Pacheco 's  faction,  for  its  part,  founded  the  National  Colorado  Move- 
ment (Movimiento  Nacional  Colorado — MNC)  on  May  11,  1990. 

As  a  result  of  the  primaries  of  the  Colorado  Party  in  early  Au- 
gust 1990,  Batlle  Ibanez's  Unity  and  Reform  sub-lema  ousted  the 
faction  led  by  former  President  Sanguinetti  from  the  leadership 
of  the  Colorado  Party.  Batlle  Ibanez's  faction  obtained  five  seats 
on  the  party's  fifteen-member  National  Executive  Committee,  fol- 
lowed by  Pacheco 's  four  seats,  Sanguinetti' s  three,  and  Millor' s 
three. 

The  National  Party  was  divided  into  at  least  five  factions.  The 
Herrerist  Movement  (Movimiento  Herrerista),  or  faction,  of  the 
National  Party  emerged  in  the  1930s.  Lacalle  founded  the  Her- 
rerist National  Council  (Consejo  Nacional  Herrerista — CNH)  in 
1961 .  The  CNH  joined  with  Senator  Dando  Ortiz's  sector  in  1987 
to  form  the  right-of-center  Herrerist  Movement.  After  Wilson  Fe- 
rreira  Aldunate's  death  in  March  1988,  Lacalle  assumed  the 
presidency  of  the  Herrerist  Movement. 

Other  National  Party  factions  included  Carlos  Julio  Pereyra's 
left-of-center  La  Rocha  National  Movement  (Movimiento  Nacional 
de  La  Rocha — MNR),  the  second  largest  National  Party  sub-lema; 
the  centrist  For  the  Fatherland  (Por  la  Patria — PLP),  founded  in 
1969  by  Ferreira  as  a  personalist  movement,  reorganized  into  a 
more  democratic  party  in  1985,  and  led  by  Senator  Alberto  Saenz 
de  Zumaran  after  Ferreira' s  death  in  1988;  Renovation  and  Victory 
(Renovacion  y  Victoria — RV),  led  by  Gonzalo  Aguirre  Ramirez, 
a  constitutional  lawyer;  and  the  People's  Blanco  Union  (Union 
Blanca  Popular — UBP),  founded  in  the  late  1980s  by  Oscar  Lopez 
Balestra,  a  member  of  the  Chamber  of  Representatives.  The  CNH, 
MNR,  and  PLP  were  all  antimilitary  factions. 

Additional  minor  parties  included  the  White  Emblem  (Divisa 
Blanca),  a  conservative  party  led  by  Eduardo  Pons  Etcheverry;  Juan 
Pivel  Devoto's  Nationalist  Popular  Faction  (Corriente  Popular 
Nacionalista — CPN),  which  broke  away  from  the  National  Party 
in  late  1986;  the  Barran  National  Party  (Partido  Nacional-Barran); 
the  ultrarightist  Society  for  the  Defense  of  Family  Tradition  and 


175 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Property  (Sociedad  de  Defensa  de  la  Tradicion  Familia  y  Proprie- 
dad — TFP);  the  Humanist  Party  (Partido  Humanista),  which  ap- 
peared in  1985;  and  the  Animal  Welfare  Ecological  Green  Party 
(Eto-Ecologista— Partido  Verde— EE-PV),  which  emerged  in  1989. 

Broad  Front 

In  February  1971,  Colorado  Party  dissident  senators  Zelmar 
Michelini  (who  was  assassinated  in  1976)  and  Hugo  Batalla  formed 
the  left-of-center  Broad  Front  (Frente  Amplio)  coalition  in  a  bid 
to  break  the  historical  two-party  system  of  Colorados  and  Blan- 
cos.  The  Socialist  Party  of  Uruguay  (Partido  Socialista  del  Uru- 
guay— PSU),  one  of  Uruguay's  oldest  left-wing  parties  (founded 
in  1910  by  Emilio  Frugoni),  was  one  of  its  principal  members. 

Another  core  Broad  Front  member,  founded  in  1921,  was  the 
Communist  Party  of  Uruguay  (Partido  Comunista  del  Uruguay — 
PCU).  Rodney  Arismendi,  PCU  general  secretary  since  1955, 
returned  to  Uruguay  in  November  1984  after  many  years  as  a  resi- 
dent of  Moscow;  he  died  in  1988  and  was  replaced  by  Jaime  Pe- 
rez, a  former  union  leader.  One  of  Sanguinetti's  first  acts  after 
taking  office  was  to  lift  the  restrictions  on  the  PCU  (which  had  been 
banned)  and  its  Moscow-line  newspaper  El  Popular.  The  PCU  had 
only  an  estimated  7,500  members  in  early  1990,  but  its  apparatus 
controlled  the  majority  of  the  country's  labor  unions. 

The  Broad  Front  had  a  strong  following  in  Montevideo,  with 
a  presence  in  all  social  classes  and  all  generations.  Under  military 
rule  (1973-85),  the  alliance's  leader,  General  (Retired)  Liber 
Seregni  Mosquera,  was  arrested,  the  Broad  Front  was  outlawed, 
and  its  activists  were  persecuted.  When  national  elections  were  held 
in  1984,  the  military  banned  Seregni  from  running.  Nevertheless, 
with  Juan  Jose  Crottogini  as  its  candidate,  the  Broad  Front  received 
slightly  more  than  21  percent  of  the  total  vote,  compared  with  18.5 
percent  in  the  1971  national  elections. 

The  Broad  Front  coalition  generally  agreed  with  the  Sanguinetti 
government's  foreign  policy  and  political  leadership  stances,  but 
it  was  fundamentally  opposed  to  its  economic  policies.  For  exam- 
ple, the  Broad  Front  favored  increasing  real  incomes  and  opposed 
the  government's  export-oriented  policy. 

Internal  power  struggles  between  moderate  and  radical  sectors 
weakened  the  Broad  Front  in  the  late  1980s.  By  late  1987,  the  Chris- 
tian Democratic  Party  (Partido  Democrata  Cristiano — PDC)  and 
the  People's  Government  Party  (Partido  por  el  Gobierno  del 
Pueblo — PGP)  were  feuding  with  other  coalition  members  over  their 
demand  that  the  alliance  be  redefined  to  give  their  own  positions 
greater  weight.  The  PDC  and  PGP  wanted  to  reduce  the  hegemony 


176 


Government  and  Politics 


of  the  Marxist  groups  and  their  undue  influence  on  Seregni's  public 
stances.  In  1988  a  PDC  faction  broke  away  and  sought  an  under- 
standing with  one  of  the  factions  of  the  National  Party.  The  PDC 
and  PGP  then  proposed  that  the  alliance  should  field  two  presiden- 
tial candidates  in  the  November  1989  elections:  Seregni  and  PGP 
leader  Batalla.  The  Broad  Front's  radical  Marxist  and  communist 
sector,  however,  opposed  the  idea  of  running  two  candidates  be- 
cause they  regarded  the  front  as  a  party  and  not  a  coalition.  In 
December  1988,  therefore,  the  leftist  parties  of  the  alliance  decid- 
ed that  Seregni  would  be  the  Broad  Front's  sole  candidate;  but  the 
PGP  backed  Batalla.  The  PDC  and  PGP  withdrew  from  the  alli- 
ance in  February  and  March  1989,  respectively,  over  the  issue  of 
presidential  candidacies  and  the  leftist  control  of  the  organization. 
Batalla' s  PGP,  which  accounted  for  about  40  percent  of  the  alli- 
ance's electoral  votes  in  1984,  had  been  responsible  for  eleven  of 
the  Broad  Front's  twenty-one  representatives  and  three  of  its  six 
senators. 

By  May  1989,  the  Broad  Front  consisted  of  fourteen  parties. 
Smaller  ones  included  the  People's  Victory  Party  (Partido  por  la 
Victoria  del  Pueblo — PVP)  and  the  Uruguayan  Revolutionary 
Movement  of  Independents  (Movimiento  de  Independientes 
Revolucionario  Oriental — MRO),  a  pro-Cuban  group  founded  in 
1961.  Five  parties  were  accepted  as  members  in  May  1989:  the 
National  Liberation  Movement-Tupamaros  (Movimiento  de  Libe- 
ration Nacional-Tupamaros — MLN-T),  the  26th  of  March  Move- 
ment of  Independents  (Movimiento  de  Independientes  26  de 
Marzo — 26  M),  the  Trotskyite  Socialist  Workers'  Party  (Partido 
Socialista  de  los  Trabajadores — PST),  the  Grito  de  Asencio  Integra- 
tion Movement  (Movimiento  de  Integration  Grito  de  Asencio), 
and  a  faction  of  the  PDC. 

The  MLN-T — a  former  urban  guerrilla  organization  established 
in  1962  and  disbanded  by  the  armed  forces  in  1972 — was  given 
amnesty  by  the  General  Assembly  in  March  1985.  The  MLN-T 
reorganized  and  appeared  in  the  political  arena  in  July  1986  but 
was  not  legally  recognized  until  May  1989.  With  several  hundred 
members,  it  was  politically  insignificant.  In  order  to  run  candi- 
dates in  the  November  1989  elections,  the  MLN-T,  together  with 
other  ultra-leftist  forces— the  PVP,  PST,  and  MRO— created  the 
People's  Participation  Movement  (Movimiento  de  Participation 
Popular— MPP). 

In  1989  the  Broad  Front  also  included  a  subcoalition  called  the 
Advanced  Democracy  Party  (Partido  de  Democracia  Avanzada), 
which  served  as  a  front  for  the  PCU;  the  People's  Broad  Front 
Movement  (Movimiento  Popular  Frenteamplista — MPF);  the 


177 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Broad  Front  Unity  Faction  (Corriente  de  Unidad  Frenteamplista — 
CUFO);  the  Pregon  Movement  (Movimiento  Pregon);  Alba  Roba- 
Uo's  left-wing  Liberal  Party  (Partido  Liberal),  a  sub-lema  that  joined 
in  April  1989;  the  Nationalist  Action  Movement  (Movimiento  de 
Accion  Nacionalista — MAN),  a  nationalist  organization;  the  Popu- 
lar and  Progressive  Blanco  Movement  (Movimiento  Popular  Blanco 
y  Progresista — MBPP),  a  moderate  left-wing  party;  and  the  Move- 
ment for  the  People's  Government  (Movimiento  por  el  Gobierno 
del  Pueblo — MGP),  which  became,  in  August  1986,  the  tenth  po- 
litical party  of  Uruguay  to  be  created.  The  MGP  subsequently 
merged  with  the  PGP  and  adopted  a  social  democratic  program. 

The  Broad  Front  was  organized  like  a  communist  party.  It  had 
a  party  congress  with  decision-making  powers,  under  which  was 
a  central  committee-like  body  called  the  national  plenum.  A  presi- 
dent, Seregni,  headed  the  108-member  national  plenum,  which  met 
at  least  once  every  two  months.  A  political  bureau,  which  includ- 
ed the  president,  exercised  day-to-day  authority. 

New  Sector 

After  breaking  away  from  the  Broad  Front  in  early  1989,  the 
PDC  and  PGP  joined  with  the  Civic  Union  (Union  Civica— UC) 
to  form  a  coalition  called  the  Integration  Movement  (Movimiento 
de  Integration — MI).  The  MI  nominated  the  PGP  leader, 
Batalla — a  senator,  journalist,  and  lawyer — as  its  1989  presiden- 
tial candidate.  On  July  24,  these  three  social  democratic  parties 
comprising  the  MI — the  PGP,  PDC,  and  UC — formally  created 
a  left-of-center  electoral  alliance  within  the  MI  called  the  New  Sector 
(Nuevo  Espacio),  which  reaffirmed  Batalla  as  its  presidential  can- 
didate. 

Juan  Guillermo  Young  and  Carlos  Vassallo,  dissidents  from  the 
conservative  Civic  Union  of  Uruguay  (Union  Civica  del 
Uruguay — UCU),  a  Catholic  party  founded  in  1912,  founded  the 
PDC  in  1962,  when  the  UCU  officially  became  the  PDC.  A  left- 
of-center  party,  the  PDC  advocated  social  transformation  through 
democratic  means.  The  PDC  soon  fractionalized.  In  1971,  when 
the  PDC  joined  with  the  PCU  and  PSU  in  the  Broad  Front,  PDC 
dissidents,  including  former  UCU  members,  broke  away  and 
formed  the  UC,  an  anti-Marxist  social  Christian  party.  The  UC 
recognized  a  Christian  democratic  faction  that  also  split  from  the 
PDC  in  1980.  From  November  1982  to  August  1984,  the  military 
regime  banned  the  PDC  for  its  policy  of  casting  blank  ballots. 

In  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  the  UC  was  divided  between 
its  traditional  sector,  the  Progressive  Faction  (Corriente  Progresis- 
ta), led  by  Humberto  Ciganda  and  made  up  of  other  longtime 


178 


Government  and  Politics 


leaders,  and  the  Renewal  Faction  (Corriente  Renovadora),  led  by 
members  of  the  Chamber  of  Representatives  Julio  Daverede  and 
Heber  Rossi  Passina,  UC  secretary  general  Hector  Perez  Piera,  and 
youth  leaders.  One  leader  of  the  UC's  Progressive  Faction,  the  late 
Juan  Vicente  Chiarino,  served  as  Sanguinetti's  defense  minister. 
The  withdrawal  of  the  UC's  presidential  candidate,  Ciganda,  from 
the  November  1989  elections  widened  the  split  within  the  party. 

Democratic  Consolidation,  1985-90 

The  Sanguinetti  Administration 

The  Sanguinetti  government  pursued  a  moderate  and  pragmatic 
approach  to  the  nation's  problems.  Having  inherited  a  US$4.9  bil- 
lion foreign  debt  accrued  almost  entirely  during  the  military  re- 
gime, the  Sanguinetti  government  focused  on  foreign  trade.  On 
April  1,  1986,  after  several  months  of  negotiations  among  the  prin- 
cipal parties — the  ruling  Colorados,  the  Blancos,  the  Broad  Front, 
and  the  UC — the  leaders  signed  an  agreement  to  promote  the  coun- 
try's economic  and  social  development. 

In  August  1986,  Sanguinetti,  with  the  backing  of  his  Colorado 
Party,  submitted  an  unrestricted  amnesty  bill  for  the  military  and 
police  to  the  General  Assembly  as  an  extension  of  the  pardon  grant- 
ed to  the  Tupamaros.  The  government  was  able  to  obtain  only  fifty- 
five  of  the  necessary  sixty-six  votes,  however,  so  the  proposal  was 
rejected.  The  ruling  Colorado  Party  then  voted  in  favor  of  the  bill 
sponsored  by  the  National  Party,  which  recommended  trials  only 
for  those  responsible  for  serious  human  rights  violations.  The  Senate 
rejected  the  National  Party  bill  as  well,  setting  the  stage  for  the 
worst  political  crisis  in  twenty  months  of  democratic  government. 
Lacking  a  majority  in  either  of  the  two  chambers,  Sanguinetti  met 
with  opposition  National  Party  leader  Ferreira  to  attempt  to  reach 
a  political  solution  on  a  number  of  points:  the  human  rights  issue; 
the  extreme  lack  of  expediency  in  General  Assembly  deliberations; 
interparty  differences  over  the  proposed  national  budget;  and  fre- 
quent clashes  between  the  government  and  the  opposition.  In  the 
first  step  leading  to  a  resolution,  the  government  and  the  National 
Party  reached  an  agreement  on  the  budget  report,  which  the  Gener- 
al Assembly  subsequently  approved. 

In  December  1986,  after  acrimonious  debate  (including  fistfights 
in  the  Chamber  of  Representatives),  the  General  Assembly  ap- 
proved the  government's  alternative  to  an  amnesty,  consisting  of 
a  '  'full  stop"  to  the  examination  of  human  rights  violations  com- 
mitted by  360  members  of  the  armed  forces  and  police  during  the 
military  regime.  According  to  Amnesty  International,  thirty-two 


179 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Uruguayan  citizens  "disappeared,"  and  thousands  were  victims 
of  persecution  and  torture  during  that  period.  Groups  opposed  to 
what  they  called  the  "impunity"  law — including  the  MNR,  the 
Broad  Front,  the  Tupamaros,  the  UC,  and  the  most  important 
labor  confederation — launched  a  campaign,  spearheaded  by  the 
MNR,  to  force  a  referendum  on  the  issue.  Led  by  human  rights 
activists,  university  professors,  and  artists,  these  groups  laboriously 
collected  the  required  555,701  "recall"  signatures,  all  of  which  had 
to  be  certified  by  the  Electoral  Court.  The  measure  carried  by  only 
230  signatures.  According  to  the  constitution,  the  signatures  of  at 
least  25  percent  of  the  electorate  are  needed  for  the  holding  of  a 
referendum  to  revoke  a  law  passed  by  the  General  Assembly. 

Those  who  favored  keeping  the  full-stop  law — including  the  rul- 
ing Colorado  Party  and  the  Ferreira-led  For  the  Fatherland  (the 
principal  National  Party  faction) — argued  that  the  amnesty  had 
given  the  country  four  years  of  stability  and  military  obedience  to 
democratic  rule.  They  warned  that  a  repeal  could  spark  an  army 
revolt.  Nevertheless,  the  MRB  supported  the  call  for  a  referendum 
on  the  full-stop  law.  In  the  obligatory  April  16,  1989,  referendum — 
in  which  85  percent  of  the  population  participated — Uruguayans 
voted  by  a  decisive  57  percent  to  43  percent  to  keep  the  full- stop 
law  in  effect  and  thereby  maintain  a  peaceful  democratic  transi- 
tion. Although  the  referendum's  aftermath  was  characterized  by 
tranquillity  and  a  spirit  of  reconciliation,  it  highlighted  Uruguay's 
growing  generation  gap.  Approximately  75  percent  of  Montevideo 
residents  between  eighteen  and  twenty-nine  voted  against  the  full- 
stop  law. 

The  November  1989  Elections 

Of  the  dozen  candidates  running  for  the  presidency  in  the  elec- 
tions of  November  26,  1989,  the  two  front-runners  were  the  Na- 
tional Party's  Lacalle  and  the  ruling  Colorado  Party's  Batlle  Ibanez 
(see  table  17,  Appendix).  Both  were  from  political  families  and  were 
grandsons  of  the  founders  of  their  respective  parties.  The  tradi- 
tion of  public  service  went  back  even  further  for  Lacalle;  his  great- 
grandfather, Juan  Jose  de  Herrera,  was  minister  of  foreign  affairs 
in  Blanco  governments  in  the  nineteenth  century.  Batlle  Ibanez — a 
lawyer,  senator,  and  leader  of  the  Colorado  Party's  majority  sec- 
tor, United  Batllism  (Batllismo  Unido — BU) — descended  from 
three  presidents:  his  great-grandfather  Lorenzo  Batlle  y  Grau 
(1868-72),  his  great-uncle  Jose  Batlle  y  Ordonez  (1903-07,  1911- 
15),  and  his  father,  Luis  Batlle  Berres  (1947-51). 

The  personalities  of  Lacalle  and  Batlle  Ibanez,  rather  than  poli- 
cy differences,  dominated  the  campaign,  although  the  issues  debated 


180 


Flag-wavers  outside  the  Legislative  Palace  on  March  1,  1985, 
President  Sanguinetti's  inauguration  day 
Courtesy  Charles  Guy  Gillespie 

were  the  ones  that  traditionally  distinguished  the  two  parties. 
Whereas  the  Colorado  Party  emphasized  the  role  of  the  govern- 
ment in  promoting  the  national  welfare,  the  National  Party  focused 
on  Uruguay's  people  and  society  as  being  primarily  responsible 
for  their  own  destiny.  The  more  controversial  issues  included 
" privatization"  of  state  enterprises — such  as  the  telephone  com- 
pany and  ports — and  the  extension  of  university  education  to  the 
interior.  Both  Batlle  Ibafiez  and  Lacalle  advocated  reducing  the 
state's  economic  role,  seeking  foreign  investment,  and  taking  on 
the  leftist-led  unions.  One  difference  was  that  Batlle  Ibafiez  favored 
paying  the  country's  foreign  debt,  whereas  Lacalle  favored  renegoti- 
ating it  (see  Foreign  Policy  in  1990,  this  ch.).  In  a  televised  debate 
in  October  1989,  Batlle  Ibafiez  repeatedly  noted  their  agreement 
on  issues,  while  Lacalle  distanced  himself  from  his  opponent,  there- 
by apparentiy  outscoring  him.  In  general,  the  campaign  was  very 
respectful  and  lacking  in  " dirty  tricks." 

Other  1989  presidential  candidates  included,  on  the  Blanco  side: 
Carlos  Julio  Pereyra,  leftist  leader  of  the  MNR;  Alberto  Saenz  de 
Zumaran,  a  strongly  antimilitary  centrist  endorsed  by  the  Social 
Christian  Movement  (Movimiento  Social  Cristiano — MSC);  and 
the  CNH's  Francisco  Ubilles.  On  the  Colorado  side,  candidates 


181 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


included  Sanguinetti's  former  minister  of  labor  and  social  welfare, 
Hugo  Fernandez  Faingold,  the  MAS  leader;  and  Jorge  Pacheco 
Areco,  the  former  president  (1967-72)  and  later  ambassador  to 
Paraguay,  as  well  as  leader  of  the  Colorado  and  Batllist  Union 
(Union  Colorada  y  Batllista — UCB),  who  ran  on  a  ticket  with  Pablo 
Millor  Coccaro,  whom  he  selected  late  in  the  campaign.  Pache- 
co's  authoritarian  and  austere  administration  had  been  widely  dis- 
liked, and  Pacheco  had  spent  his  previous  seventeen  years  out  of 
the  country — even  serving  as  an  ambassador  for  the  military 
regime — but  many  Uruguayans  still  nostalgically  identified  him 
with  a  long- gone  period  of  economic  stability  and  security. 

Of  the  National  Party's  three  candidates — Pereyra,  Zumaran, 
and  Lacalle — Lacalle  initially  had  the  least  support  among  party 
members  (20  percent),  as  compared  with  Pereyra  (28  percent)  and 
Zumaran  (46  percent),  according  to  a  poll  commissioned  by  a 
weekly  news  magazine,  Busqueda,  in  July  1988.  This  standing  was 
reversed,  however,  by  September  1989  when,  according  to  a  poll 
in  Montevideo  published  by  Busqueda,  52  percent  of  those  ques- 
tioned voted  for  Lacalle,  34  percent  for  Pereyra,  and  10  percent 
for  Zumaran. 

The  total  number  of  people  duly  registered  to  vote  in  the  Novem- 
ber 26,  1989,  presidential  elections  was  2.4  million,  of  which  47.3 
percent  were  Montevideo  city  residents  and  52 . 7  percent  were  from 
the  country's  nineteen  departments.  In  an  upset  for  the  Colorado 
Party,  Lacalle  and  his  running  mate,  Gonzalo  Aguirre  Ramirez, 
won  after  their  party  garnered  37.7  percent  of  the  2  million  votes 
cast,  compared  with  the  Colorado  Party's  29.2  percent,  the  Broad 
Front's  20.6  percent,  and  the  New  Sector's  meager  8.6  percent. 
Other  parties,  including  the  EE-PV,  received  a  total  of  3.9  percent. 

The  other  big  winner  was  the  Broad  Front,  whose  mayoral  can- 
didate, Tabare  Vazquez,  captured  Montevideo's  municipal  govern- 
ment. Vazquez,  a  cancer  specialist  and  professor  of  oncology,  as  well 
as  a  member  of  the  PSU's  central  committee,  became  the  city's  first 
Marxist  mayor  by  obtaining  35  percent  of  the  total  vote. 

The  Colorado  Party  lost  not  only  the  elections  but  also  ten  depart- 
ments and  fifteen  seats  in  the  Chamber  of  Representatives.  The 
National  Party  took  seventeen  departments,  obtaining  thirty-nine 
of  the  ninety-nine  seats  in  the  Chamber  of  Representatives;  the 
Colorado  Party,  thirty;  the  Broad  Front,  twenty-one;  and  the  New 
Sector,  nine.  Of  the  thirty  Senate  seats,  the  Blancos  won  twelve, 
the  Colorados  nine,  the  Broad  Front  seven,  and  the  New  Sector 
two.  Aguirre 's  own  fledgling  RV  party  overtook  the  veteran  PLP 
and  equaled  the  MNR  by  winning  1 12,000  votes,  thereby  winning 
two  seats  in  the  Senate  and  three  in  the  Chamber  of  Representatives. 


182 


Government  and  Politics 


The  Lacalle  Administration 

A  climate  of  labor  unrest,  imminent  economic  crisis,  and  grow- 
ing activism  on  the  political  left  confronted  Lacalle  when  he  assumed 
office  on  March  1,  1990.  Lacking  a  parliamentary  majority,  he 
formed  a  ' ' European- style"  coalition,  called  National  Coincidence 
(Coincidencia  Nacional),  with  the  Colorado  Party,  the  first  such 
interparty  sharing  of  power  in  a  quarter-century.  Nevertheless,  the 
two  parties  were  able  to  agree  only  on  sharing  four  cabinet  appoint- 
ments and  supporting  the  new  government's  fiscal-reform  measures. 

Lacalle  gave  the  posts  of  ministers  of  housing  and  social  promo- 
tion, industry  and  energy,  public  health,  and  tourism  to  the  Colo- 
rado Party  in  exchange  for  the  necessary  support  in  the  General 
Assembly  for  approving  various  controversial  projects  regarding 
education,  the  fiscal  deficit,  and  the  right  to  strike — measures  that 
labor  unions  and  the  left  opposed.  Lacalle  chose  Mariano  Brito, 
a  law  professor  with  no  previous  government  service,  as  his  defense 
minister;  Enrique  Braga,  one  of  his  principal  economic  advisers, 
as  his  economy  and  finance  minister;  Hector  Gros  Espiell,  a  lawyer- 
diplomat,  as  his  foreign  affairs  minister;  and  Juan  Andres  Rami- 
rez, a  lawyer-professor  who  had  not  previously  occupied  any  key 
position,  as  his  interior  minister. 

At  the  top  of  Lacalle 's  policy  priorities  were  regional  economic 
integration  and  moving  Uruguay  toward  a  market  economy,  largely 
through  privatization  of  inefficient  state  enterprises  and  through 
free  trade  (see  Foreign  Policy  in  1990,  this  ch.).  Unlike  his  predeces- 
sor, however,  Lacalle  found  himself  confronted  with  a  Marxist 
mayor  of  Montevideo,  whose  Broad  Front  coalition  was  opposed 
to  economic  restructuring.  By  mid-1990  the  prospects  for  a  ''co- 
habitation arrangement"  between  the  neoliberal,  right-of-center 
president  and  Vazquez  appeared  poor.  Shortly  after  taking  their 
respective  offices,  the  two  leaders  publicly  clashed  on  departmen- 
tal government  prerogatives.  Vazquez  sought  to  pursue  autono- 
mous policies  in  areas  such  as  transportation,  public  works,  and 
health  and  to  decentralize  power  in  Montevideo  Department. 
Lacalle  opposed  Vazquez's  attempts  to  expand  his  departmental 
powers,  arguing  that  a  more  powerful  mayor  of  Montevideo  would 
undermine  the  position  of  the  executive  branch.  The  confronta- 
tion that  effectively  ended  the  co-habitation  arrangement  took  place 
over  Montevideo's  new  budget,  which  Lacalle  threatened  to  block. 

Political  Forces  and  Interest  Groups 

The  Military 

Prior  to  the  1973  coup,  the  military  exercised  influence  but  had 


183 


184 


Punta  del  Este,  host  city  to  international  conferences 
Courtesy  Inter-American  Development  Bank 


185 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

rarely  intervened  directly  in  the  political  system.  The  fact  that  all 
of  the  defense  ministers  who  served  between  1959  and  1971  were 
military  men  indicated  a  degree  of  military  influence.  By  1984, 
when  the  military  negotiated  with  the  political  parties  on  a  transi- 
tion to  democratic  government,  the  armed  forces  were  considered 
a  de  facto  political  force  (see  The  Growth  of  Military  Involvement 
in  Politics,  ch.  5).  As  Uruguay  returned  formally  to  democratic 
rule  in  1985,  the  armed  forces  continued  to  exercise  a  degree  of 
tutelage  over  national  affairs,  despite  their  depoliticized  role.  San- 
guinetti's  defense  minister  was  a  retired  lieutenant  general,  Hugo 
M.  Medina  (the  only  military  defense  minister  to  serve  in  the 
1980s),  who  as  army  commander  in  chief  had  refused  to  serve  sub- 
poenas on  military  officers.  A  poll  commissioned  by  Busqueda  in 
September  1986  found  that  an  overwhelming  majority  of  Mon- 
tevideo's population  believed,  to  varying  degrees,  that  the  mili- 
tary was  still  a  factor  in  political  power;  only  10  percent  believed 
that  the  military  had  no  power. 

Some  observers  and  political  party  leaders  commented  on  alleged 
military  pressure  to  defeat  a  call  for  prosecution  of  military  officers 
for  human  rights  abuses.  The  issue  arose  in  December  1986  after 
the  General  Assembly  approved  the  full- stop  amnesty  law,  which 
exonerated  360  members  of  the  armed  forces  and  the  police  ac- 
cused of  committing  human  rights  abuses  during  the  military  re- 
gime. In  one  demonstration  of  possible  continued  military  influence, 
Defense  Minister  Medina  reflected  military  opinion  in  condemn- 
ing the  April  1989  referendum  to  decide  the  validity  of  the  am- 
nesty law.  Medina  emphasized  that  "the  dignity  of  the  national 
army"  should  not  be  violated.  General  Washington  Varela,  head 
of  the  Military  Academy,  warned  that  the  army  would  "close 
ranks"  if  the  amnesty  were  rescinded. 

Amnesty  appeared  to  be  firm,  but  the  question  of  whether  or 
not  the  military  would  retain  its  traditionally  apolitical  role  in  the 
future  was  less  certain.  Stating  that  "the  Pandora's  box  of  mili- 
tary intervention  has  been  opened  in  Uruguay,"  Martin  Wein- 
stein  opined  in  1989  that  the  military  would  continue  to  exercise 
a  veto  power  over  government  action  in  human  rights  and  mili- 
tary affairs  and  possibly  assume  a  tutelary  role  in  areas  such  as 
economic  policy  and  labor  relations.  Military  influence  in  the  lat- 
ter two  areas,  however,  had  not  yet  manifested  itself  in  1990.  In 
order  to  demonstrate  his  authority  over  the  military,  Lacalle  ap- 
pointed a  civilian  as  his  defense  minister  and  exercised  his  presiden- 
tial prerogative  to  appoint  armed  forces  commanders  of  his  own 
choosing,  regardless  of  seniority.  His  appointments  of  the  air  force 


186 


Government  and  Politics 


and  naval  commanders  were  third  and  fourth  in  seniority,  respec- 
tively, among  serving  officers. 

Labor  Unions 

In  March  1985,  Sanguinetti  abrogated  laws  and  decrees  issued 
by  the  military  regime  that  had  banned  the  labor  unions,  the  im- 
munity of  labor  union  leaders,  and  the  right  of  public  and  private 
workers  to  strike.  He  also  restored  the  legal  status  of  the  primarily 
communist-led  National  Convention  of  Workers  (Convention  Na- 
cional  de  Trabaj adores — CNT),  dissolved  by  the  military  regime 
in  1973;  in  1983  the  Interunion  Workers'  Assembly  (or  Plenum) 
(Plenario  Intersindical  de  Trabajadores — PIT)  adopted  the  name 
PIT-CNT  to  show  its  link  with  the  banned  CNT.  The  long- 
repressed  labor  movement  took  advantage  of  its  newly  granted  free- 
dom by  staging  strikes  and  marches  during  the  first  six  months 
of  democracy. 

The  communist-led  Uruguayan  labor  movement,  which  claimed 
to  represent  about  300,000  of  the  1.3  million  Uruguayan  workers, 
also  called  general  strikes  in  the  late  1980s,  as  well  as  strikes  in 
specific  job  areas,  mostly  involving  civil  service  workers  or  those 
in  state  enterprises.  In  1986  Sanguinetti 's  government  and  the 
Colorado  Party  signed  a  "nonaggression"  pact  with  the  PCU.  Un- 
der the  Colorado-Communist  Pact  (the  "Co-Co  Pact"),  militant 
labor  members  of  the  Colorado  Party  and  the  PCU  formed  alli- 
ances whenever  the  National  Party  promoted  a  movement  within 
a  labor  organization.  Nevertheless,  the  powerful  main  labor  or- 
ganization, the  PIT-CNT,  staged  three  general  strikes  in  1986. 

The  attitudes  of  the  leadership  of  the  Moscow-oriented  World 
Federation  of  Trade  Unions  (WFTU),  which  was  affiliated  with 
the  PIT-CNT,  were  among  the  main  issues  discussed  by  candi- 
dates in  the  1989  presidential  campaign.  The  leading  candidates 
endorsed  proposals  for  legislation  to  require  secret  strike  votes  and 
other  union  regulation.  Labor  activity  in  Uruguay  was  virtually 
unregulated.  The  WFTU  supported  the  PCU  and  other  leftist  po- 
litical groups  united  in  the  Broad  Front.  In  November  1989,  the 
movement  was  preparing  for  a  showdown  with  the  mainstream  po- 
litical leaders  over  whether  or  not  to  espouse  a  more  market-oriented 
economy  with  foreign  investment.  Although  the  PIT-CNT's  leader- 
ship opposed  increasing  foreign  investment,  the  organization  was 
becoming  fractionalized  among  those  influenced  by  perestroika  (re- 
structuring) in  the  Soviet  Union,  those  who  rejected  it,  and  non- 
Marxists  seeking  to  challenge  leftist  domination  of  the  movement. 

Lacalle  advocated  regulating  labor  union  activities,  including  the 
right  to  strike.  In  his  view,  the  decision  on  whether  or  not  to  strike 


187 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


should  be  made  by  the  workers  in  a  secret  vote,  after  the  failure 
of  obligatory  reconciliation  efforts.  Shortly  after  Lacalle  took  office, 
Minister  of  Labor  and  Social  Welfare  Carlos  Cat,  who  ran  for 
mayor  of  Montevideo  in  the  1989  elections,  met  with  representa- 
tives of  business  organizations  and  the  PIT-CNT  but  failed  to  reach 
an  agreement.  The  PIT-CNT  demonstrated  its  right  to  strike  with 
a  six-hour  general  work  stoppage  on  July  25,  1990,  to  protest  the 
government's  austerity  and  privatization  programs. 

Despite  Lacalle's  efforts  to  regulate  the  sector,  Uruguay's  labor 
movement  in  1990  had  significant  clout  as  an  interest  group,  mainly 
with  regard  to  its  highly  disruptive  strike  tactics.  Like  leftist  politi- 
cal organizations  in  general,  however,  the  labor  unions'  continued 
use  of  the  same  rhetoric  and  methods  that  got  results  during  the 
military  regime  were  seen  by  some  Uruguayan  journalists  and  so- 
ciologists as  major  contributors  to  both  emigration  and  apathy 
among  young  Uruguayans. 

The  Roman  Catholic  Church 

The  Roman  Catholic  Church  has  had  only  a  minimal  role  in 
Uruguay  because  of  a  strong  anticlerical  bias  bequeathed  by  Batlle 
y  Ordonez.  Unlike  many  other  Latin  American  countries,  religion 
has  not  interfered  in  politics  to  any  significant  extent.  Although 
66  percent  of  the  population  was  nominally  Roman  Catholic  in 
1990,  less  than  half  were  practicing  Catholics.  The  church's  main 
political  wing  was  the  PDC,  which  advocated  social  transforma- 
tion through  democratic  means.  In  addition,  there  were  numer- 
ous lay  organizations  engaged  in  enhancing  the  church's  social 
relevance.  These  included  the  Catholic  Workers'  Circle,  Catholic 
Action,  the  Christian  Democratic  Youth  Movement,  and  the 
Catholic  Family  Movement.  The  conservatives  had  few  represen- 
tatives among  the  clergy. 

The  election  of  Lacalle,  a  devout  Catholic,  may  have  reflected 
ascending  Catholic  influence  in  the  nation.  Another  indicator  of 
rising  Catholic  influence  was  the  establishment  in  1984  of  the 
Catholic  University  of  Uruguay  in  Montevideo,  the  country's  only 
private  university.  However,  the  limits  of  Catholic  influence  in  Uru- 
guay were  highlighted  in  early  1986  by  the  failure  of  a  proposal 
by  Catholic  conservatives  in  the  Colorado  and  National  parties  to 
ban  the  film  Hail  Mary,  which  the  church  hierarchy  regarded  as 
"pornographic  and  blasphemous." 

Students 

Student  organizations  have  had  litde  influence  on  their  own,  but 
they  often  supported  the  demands  of  labor  unions  and  other  groups. 


188 


Government  and  Politics 


The  University  of  the  Republic,  Uruguay's  only  public  universi- 
ty, played  a  key  role  as  an  opposition  force  during  the  administra- 
tions of  Pacheco  (1967-72)  and  Juan  Maria  Bordaberry  Arocena 
(1972-76).  Shortly  after  taking  office,  Sanguinetti  ordered  the  resto- 
ration of  the  legal  status  of  the  Federation  of  Uruguayan  Univer- 
sity Students  (Federation  de  Estudiantes  Universitarios  del 
Uruguay — FEUU).  The  military  regime,  whose  generals  regard- 
ed the  university  as  a  center  of  leftist  subversion,  had  banned  the 
FEUU.  University  of  the  Republic  student  elections  were  held  twice 
during  the  Sanguinetti  administration,  and  student  groups  resumed 
campus  political  activities.  As  a  result  of  the  June  1989  university 
elections,  leftists  retained  their  dominance  in  1990. 

The  Media 

Uruguay's  long  tradition  of  freedom  of  the  press  was  severely 
curtailed  during  the  twelve  years  of  military  dictatorship,  especially 
its  final  years  under  Lieutenant  General  Gregorio  Alvarez  Armelino 
(1981-85).  During  his  administration,  more  than  thirty  news  or- 
ganizations, including  radio  stations,  publications,  and  television 
stations,  were  closed.  On  his  first  day  in  office  in  March  1985,  San- 
guinetti reestablished  complete  freedom  of  the  press.  His  govern- 
ment also  abrogated  a  regulation  that  compelled  all  international 
news  agencies  to  supply  a  copy  of  all  disseminated  political  news 
to  the  Ministry  of  Interior. 

Although  newspapers  have  played  an  important  role  in  the  evo- 
lution of  Uruguayan  party  politics,  they  were  generally  affiliated 
with  and  dependent  on  one  or  the  other  of  the  traditional  parties. 
This  combination  of  party  dependence  before  the  military  regime 
and  censorship  during  it  prevented  the  press  and  the  media  in 
general  from  developing  into  a  Fourth  Estate.  After  freedom  of 
the  press  was  restored  in  1985,  however,  Montevideo's  newspapers 
(which  accounted  for  all  of  Uruguay's  principal  daily  newspapers) 
gready  expanded  their  circulations  and  presumably  increased  their 
influence  (see  table  18,  Appendix).  Most  of  the  twenty-five  to  thirty 
interior  newspapers  were  biweekly,  except  for  a  couple  of  regional 
dailies. 

Well  over  100  periodicals  were  published  in  Uruguay.  Busqueda 
(Search)  was  Uruguay's  most  important  weekly  news  magazine. 
Founded  in  1971 ,  Busqueda  had  close  links  to  civilian  economic  offi- 
cials in  the  Sanguinetti  and  Lacalle  governments  and  served  as  an 
important  forum  for  political  and  economic  analysis.  A  right-of- 
center,  independent  publication,  Busqueda  had  a  liberal  editorial 
policy  that  espoused  free  markets,  free  trade,  and  private  enter- 
prise and  competition.  Although  it  sold  only  about  16,000  copies 


189 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

a  week,  its  estimated  readership  exceeded  50,000.  The  educational 
economic  status  of  its  readers  placed  them  among  the  top  3  or  4 
percent  of  the  population. 

Other  periodicals  included  the  PDC's  Aqui,  a  weekly  founded 
in  late  1984;  the  monthly  Cuadernos  de  Marcha,  founded  in  1985  by 
Carlos  Quijano — who  founded  the  former  weekly  procommunist 
newspaper  Marcha  in  1939 — and  associated  with  the  Broad  Front; 
Zeta,  a  weekly  founded  in  1986  and  affiliated  with  the  PGP;  and 
Mate  Amargo,  a  fortnightly  published  by  the  Tupamaros  with  an 
estimated  readership  of  53,000.  An  additional  100  periodicals  were 
imported  from  foreign  countries. 

Fifteen  foreign  wire  services  had  offices  in  Montevideo.  Persons 
affiliated  with  the  National  Party  established  Uruguay's  first  pri- 
vate international  news  agency,  PRESSUR,  in  1984.  The  San- 
guinetti  government  had  its  own  official  news  service,  the 
Presidential  Information  Service  (Servicio  Presidencial  de  Infor- 
mation— SEPREDI),  presumably  retained  by  Lacalle  with  a  new 
staff.  The  leading  press  associations  were  the  Association  of 
Newspapers  of  Uruguay,  the  Uruguayan  Press  Association,  and 
the  National  Association  of  Uruguayan  Broadcasters  (Asociacion 
Nacional  de  Broadcasters  Uruguayos — ANDEBU). 

Other  Interest  Groups 

Latinamerica  Press  reported  that  West  German  foundations  had 
a  heavy  presence  in  Uruguay,  where  more  than  100  research  in- 
stitutes, all  funded  from  abroad,  were  engaged  in  nearly  500 
projects.  The  report  noted  that  the  Colorado  Party  had  developed 
close  ties  to  the  Hanns-Seidel  Foundation  over  the  years;  the  PDC 
and  several  Christian  democratic  business  associations  were  con- 
nected to  the  Konrad  Adenauer  Foundation;  the  National  Party 
received  support  from  the  Friedrich  Naumann  Foundation;  and 
the  PIT-CNT  and  PGP  received  financial  support  from  the 
Friedrich  Ebert  Foundation. 

What  influence,  if  any,  these  foundations  had  on  government 
policies  was  unclear,  although  their  presence  presumably  enhanced 
West  German-Uruguayan  relations.  However,  when  Sanguinetti 
visited  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany)  in  1987 
and  signed  a  technical  assistance  agreement  with  the  right-wing 
Hanns-Seidel  Foundation,  a  scandal  erupted  in  Montevideo  over 
whether  West  German  development  foundations  were  using  their 
funds  to  influence  Uruguayan  politics.  The  agreement  provided 
for  assistance  by  the  Hanns-Seidel  Foundation  to  the  Ministry 
of  Interior  in  the  development  of  an  antiterrorism  computer 
system. 


190 


Government  and  Politics 


Foreign  Relations 

Uruguay's  foreign  policy  has  been  shaped  by  its  democratic  tra- 
dition, its  history  of  being  a  victim  of  foreign  intervention,  its  sta- 
tus as  the  second  smallest  republic  in  South  America  (after 
Suriname),  and  its  location  between  the  two  rival  giants  of  the 
region:  Argentina  to  the  west  and  Brazil  to  the  north.  In  the 
nineteenth  century,  Argentina  and  Brazil  did  not  accept  Uruguay's 
status  as  an  independent  republic,  and  they  often  invaded  Uru- 
guayan territory  (see  Beginnings  of  Independent  Life,  1830-52, 
ch.  1).  The  British  and  French  consuls,  for  their  part,  often  exer- 
cised as  much  power  as  the  local  authorities.  Thus,  Uruguay's  in- 
ternational relations  historically  have  been  guided  by  the  principles 
of  nonintervention,  respect  for  national  sovereignty,  and  reliance 
on  the  rule  of  law  to  settle  disputes.  The  use  of  military  force  any- 
where except  internally  was  never  a  feasible  option  for  Uruguay. 

According  to  Bernardo  Quagliotti  de  Bellis,  a  Uruguayan  profes- 
sor of  law,  his  country  had  historically  denned  its  foreign  policy 
as  based  on  five  principles:  affirmation  of  the  right  of  self- 
determination  of  peoples;  active  participation  in  the  process  of  po- 
litical cooperation  that  attempts  to  look  within  and  outside  the 
region;  coordination  of  positions  on  everything  possible;  recogni- 
tion of  the  complexity  and  the  diversity  of  the  problems  at  hand; 
and  flexibility  combined  with  a  sense  of  precaution. 

Beginning  with  Batlle  y  Ordonez's  government  in  the  early  twen- 
tieth century,  Uruguay  has  been  active  in  international  and  regional 
organizations.  It  joined  the  United  Nations  (UN)  in  1945  and  has 
been  a  member  of  most  of  its  specialized  agencies.  In  1986  Uru- 
guay was  elected  to  membership  in  the  UN's  Economic  and  Social 
Council.  In  December  1989,  Uruguay  signed  the  United  Nations 
Convention  against  Illicit  Traffic  in  Narcotic  Drugs  and  Psycho- 
tropic Substances.  Uruguay  belonged  to  thirty-one  other  interna- 
tional organizations  as  well,  including  the  Organization  of  Ameri- 
can States  (OAS),  the  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade 
(GATT — see  Glossary),  the  International  Telecommunications 
Satellite  Organization  (Intelsat),  the  Latin  American  Economic  Sys- 
tem (Sistema  Economico  Latinamericano — SELA),  and  the  Latin 
American  Integration  Association  (Asociacion  Latinoamericana  de 
Integration — ALADI;  see  Glossary).  Uruguay  was  a  signatory  of 
the  Inter- American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal  Assistance  (Rio  Treaty), 
the  Treaty  for  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons  in  Latin  America 
(Tlatelolco  Treaty),  and  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  Basin  Treaty. 

Uruguay  has  had  strong  political  and  cultural  ties  with  the  coun- 
tries of  Europe  and  the  Americas.  It  has  shared  basic  values  with 


191 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


them,  such  as  support  for  constitutional  democracy,  political  plural- 
ism, and  individual  liberties.  Historically,  Uruguay  has  enjoyed 
a  special  relationship  with  Britain  because  of  political  and  economic 
ties  beginning  in  1828  (see  The  Struggle  for  Independence,  1811- 
30,  ch.  1).  Bilateral  relations  with  Argentina  and  Brazil  have  al- 
ways been  of  particular  importance.  In  1974  and  1975,  Uruguay 
signed  economic  and  commercial  cooperation  agreements  with  both 
countries. 

Traditionally,  relations  between  Uruguay  and  the  United  States 
have  been  based  on  a  common  dedication  to  democratic  ideals. 
Although  it  initially  attempted  neutrality  in  both  world  wars,  Uru- 
guay ultimately  sided  with  the  Allies.  In  World  War  I,  Uruguay 
did  not  break  relations  with  Germany  and  lift  its  neutrality  policy 
until  October  1917.  By  that  time,  the  government  of  Feliciano  Viera 
(1915-19)  had  recognized  "the  justice  and  nobility"  of  the  Unit- 
ed States  severance  of  diplomatic  relations  with  Germany  in  early 
1917.  In  1941  President  Alfredo  Baldomir  (1938-43)  allowed  the 
United  States  to  build  naval  and  air  bases  in  Uruguay.  The  United 
States  also  trained  and  supplied  Uruguay's  armed  forces.  In  January 
1942,  one  month  after  Japan  attacked  Pearl  Harbor,  Uruguay  broke 
relations  with  the  Axis.  The  United  States  reciprocated  with  gen- 
erous loans.  As  a  condition  for  admission  to  the  San  Francisco  con- 
ference, where  the  United  Nations  Charter  was  drawn  up,  Uruguay 
declared  war  against  the  Axis  on  February  15,  1945.  That  year 
it  also  signed  the  Act  of  Chapultepec  (a  collective  defense  treaty 
of  the  American  republics)  and  joined  the  Inter- American  Defense 
Board  (IADB).  In  1947  it  signed  the  Rio  Treaty,  a  regional  alli- 
ance that  established  a  mutual  defense  system. 

During  the  1973-85  period  of  military  rule,  Uruguay's  tradi- 
tionally democratic  diplomacy  was  replaced  by  "military  diploma- 
cy" as  determined  by  the  "Doctrine  of  National  Security."  This 
military  diplomacy  gave  priority  to  the  serious  problem  of  nation- 
al and  regional  subversion  and  to  historical  conflicts  affecting  region- 
al diplomatic  stability,  such  as  the  issues  of  dams  between  Argentina 
and  Brazil,  sovereignty  over  the  Beagle  Channel,  Bolivia's  attempts 
to  regain  access  to  the  Pacific  from  Chile,  the  Ecuador-Peru  bor- 
der dispute,  and  South  Atlantic  security. 

Foreign  Relations  under  Democratic  Rule,  1985-90 

With  the  return  of  democratic  government  in  1985,  Uruguay's 
foreign  policy  underwent  an  abrupt  change.  After  taking  office, 
Sanguinetti  vowed  to  maintain  and  increase  diplomatic  relations 
with  every  nation  "that  respects  the  international  rules  of  non- 
interference in  the  internal  affairs  of  other  countries."  He  carried 


192 


Government  and  Politics 


out  this  policy  by  renewing  relations  with  Cuba,  Nicaragua,  and 
China  and  by  strengthening  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union. 

Sanguinetti's  first  foreign  affairs  minister,  Enrique  Iglesias,  con- 
ducted an  intensive  and  successful  diplomatic  offensive  to  restore 
his  country's  prestige.  Once  again,  Uruguay  began  to  host  impor- 
tant international  meetings,  such  as  the  September  1986  GATT 
conference  and  the  second  meeting  of  the  presidents  of  the  Group 
of  Eight  (the  successor  organization  of  the  Contadora  Support 
Group)  in  October  1988,  at  the  seaside  resort  of  Punta  del  Este. 
More  world  leaders  visited  Uruguay  during  the  Sanguinetti  ad- 
ministration than  ever  before  in  Uruguay's  history. 

An  important  element  of  the  Sanguinetti  government's  foreign 
policy  was  the  promotion  of  a  more  just  world  economy  and  of  a 
more  free  and  open  trade  system.  Guided  by  Iglesias,  Sanguinetti 
reintegrated  Uruguay  into  the  region,  renewed  and  strengthened 
diplomatic  and  commercial  relations  with  countries  that  were  ig- 
nored for  ideological  reasons  during  the  "military  diplomacy"  peri- 
od, negotiated  new  markets  for  Uruguayan  products,  instigated 
a  new  round  of  negotiations  in  GATT,  and  designed  a  new  Latin 
American  strategy  for  dealing  with  the  foreign  debt.  In  April  1988, 
after  Iglesias' s  election  as  president  of  the  Inter- American  Develop- 
ment Bank  (IDB),  Luis  A.  Barrios  Tassano  became  Sanguinetti's 
second  foreign  affairs  minister.  Barrios  described  Uruguayan  for- 
eign policy  as  "pluralist,  multifaceted,  nationalist,  and  flexible." 

The  United  States 

Although  Uruguay  was  critical  of  unilateral  United  States  mili- 
tary intervention  in  Latin  America  and  elsewhere,  bilateral  rela- 
tions during  the  1985-90  period  were  excellent.  The  United  States, 
which  had  expressed  deep  concern  about  the  human  rights  situa- 
tion beginning  with  the  administration  of  Jimmy  Carter,  strongly 
supported  Uruguay's  transition  to  democracy.  In  March  1985, 
Secretary  of  State  George  P.  Shultz  attended  Sanguinetti's  presiden- 
tial inauguration.  As  a  member  of  the  Contadora  Support  Group, 
Uruguay  participated  in  meetings  on  Central  American  issues  in 
1985-86,  particularly  United  States  support  for  the  anti-Sandinista 
resistance  guerrillas  in  Nicaragua.  The  Sanguinetti  government 
regarded  United  States  aid  to  the  anti-Sandinista  Contra  rebels  in 
Nicaragua  as  an  obstacle  to  peace  in  Central  America.  It  also  op- 
posed the  presence  of  United  States  troops  in  Honduras. 

Despite  his  government's  criticism  of  United  States  military  ac- 
tions in  Honduras,  in  Nicaragua,  and  against  Libya  in  April  1986, 
Sanguinetti  received  a  warm  welcome  at  the  White  House  during 
an  official  five-day  state  visit  to  the  United  States  in  June  1986, 


193 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


the  first  by  a  Uruguayan  president  in  more  than  tinrty  years.  During 
the  visit,  which  was  dominated  by  trade  discussions,  Sanguinetti 
criticized  United  States  protectionist  policies,  such  as  the  decision 
to  subsidize  grain  exports  to  the  Soviet  Union.  Nevertheless,  he 
departed  Washington  satisfied  that  the  administration  of  President 
Ronald  W.  Reagan  had  adopted  a  more  flexible  policy  toward  Uru- 
guayan exports.  Shultz  again  paid  an  official  visit  to  Uruguay  on 
August  5,  1988,  for  talks  with  Sanguinetti,  Barrios,  and  several 
opposition  leaders.  The  official  talks  centered  on  trade  issues. 

Although  Uruguay's  relations  with  Panama  at  the  time  of  the 
United  States  military  intervention  there  in  December  1989  were 
at  their  lowest  possible  level — without  an  ambassador — Sanguinetti 
was  again  critical  of  the  United  States.  He  characterized  the  United 
States  military  operation  as  a  "step  backward." 

Latin  America 

Sanguinetti  favored  the  formation  of  a  bloc  of  debtor  countries 
in  Latin  America  to  renegotiate  the  foreign  debt.  To  that  end,  in 
the  late  1980s  Uruguay  joined  the  Cartagena  Consensus  (of  which 
Iglesias  was  secretary)  on  the  foreign  debt.  Uruguay  hosted  the 
temporary  secretariat  of  the  Cartagena  Consensus  follow-up  com- 
mittee, a  group  of  Latin  America's  eleven  most  indebted  countries. 

Uruguay  also  participated  in  the  Group  of  Eight,  a  permanent 
mechanism  for  consultation  and  political  coordination  that  succeeded 
the  Contadora  Support  Group  in  December  1986.  Like  the  Con- 
tadora  Support  Group,  the  Group  of  Eight  advocated  democracy 
and  a  negotiated  solution  to  the  Central  American  insurgency.  It 
consisted  of  Argentina,  Brazil,  Colombia,  Mexico,  Panama,  Peru, 
Uruguay,  and  Venezuela.  The  Sanguinetti  government  advocated 
a  diplomatic  solution  to  the  insurgency  in  Central  America  based 
on  the  Caraballeda  Declaration,  a  document  drawn  up  on  January 
12,  1986,  by  the  Contadora  Support  Group. 

The  Sanguinetti  administration,  after  direct  negotiations  with 
Cuba,  resumed  Uruguay's  commercial  and  cultural  ties  with  the 
island  nation  in  April  1985  and  diplomatic  and  consular  relations 
on  October  17,  1985.  It  also  reestablished  diplomatic  relations  with 
Nicaragua.  Uruguay  had  discontinued  its  diplomatic  and  consu- 
lar relations  with  Cuba  on  September  8,  1964,  in  compliance  with 
the  decision  of  the  OAS  General  Assembly,  which  sought  to  iso- 
late the  regime  of  Fidel  Castro  Ruz. 

The  Sanguinetti  government's  differences  with  Cuba's  politi- 
cal, social,  and  economic  system,  as  well  as  with  some  foreign  policy 
issues,  remained.  For  example,  Sanguinetti  disagreed  with  Castro's 


194 


Embassy  of  the  United  States,  Montevideo 
Courtesy  Edmundo  Flores 


proposal  to  discontinue  payment  on  the  Latin  American  foreign 
debt.  Sanguinetti  believed  that  the  resulting  financial  and  commer- 
cial isolation  would  provoke  much  worse  problems.  In  his  view, 
the  Cartagena  Consensus,  rather  than  a  meeting  in  Havana,  was 
the  appropriate  forum  in  which  to  discuss  the  debt  issue.  Both  coun- 
tries strengthened  bilateral  relations,  however,  by  signing  commer- 
cial agreements  in  May  1986  and  March  1987  and  by  signing  a 
five-year  economic,  industrial,  scientific,  and  technical  coopera- 
tion agreement  on  the  latter  occasion. 

Sanguinetti  considered  regional  integration  in  the  Rio  de  la  Plata 
Basin  the  key  to  Uruguay's  foreign  policy.  Uruguay's  efforts  at 
promoting  integration  were  aided  in  the  late  1980s  by  the  emer- 
gence of  democratic  governments  in  Argentina,  Bolivia,  Brazil, 
Chile,  Peru,  and  Paraguay.  Sanguinetti  sought  a  closer  relation- 
ship with  Argentina,  Brazil,  and  Paraguay  in  the  belief  that  Uru- 
guay's future  was  closely  linked  to  the  possibility  of  the  integration 
of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  Basin.  Although  the  Sanguinetti  government 
supported  Argentina's  claim  to  sovereignty  over  the  Falkland  Islands 
(Islas  Malvinas),  it  adopted  a  neutral  stance  in  the  conflict  between 
Argentina  and  Britain  (which  waged  the  South  Atlantic  War  over 
the  islands  from  April  to  June  1982)  and  made  known  its  desire 
that  military  bases  and  other  facilities  not  be  installed  in  the  South 


195 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Atlantic.  In  May  1985,  Argentina  and  Uruguay  signed  the  Decla- 
ration of  Colonia,  which  established  the  framework  for  promoting 
economic  and  social  integration  between  the  two  countries. 

Sanguinetti  initiated  a  similar  program  of  integration  with  Brazil. 
In  August  1985,  the  Brazilian  and  Uruguayan  presidents  strength- 
ened bilateral  relations  by  holding  the  first  meeting  of  the  General 
Coordinating  Commission  and  signing  thirteen  bilateral  accords. 
The  presidents  of  Argentina,  Brazil,  and  Uruguay  met  in  Brasilia 
in  1986  to  advance  their  integration  process.  In  January  1990,  San- 
guinetti hosted  an  official  visit  by  the  Paraguayan  president,  Army 
General  Andres  Rodriguez  Pedotti,  during  which  integration  mat- 
ters such  as  the  River  Transport  System  (consisting  of  the  Rio 
Paraguay-Rio  Parana-Rio  Uruguay  waterway)  were  discussed. 

Other  Regions 

Since  1926  and  renewed  in  1943,  Uruguay  has  had  diplomatic 
and  trade  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union,  longer  than  any  other 
South  American  nation.  Relations  were  at  a  relatively  low  level 
during  the  military  regime.  In  May  1985,  the  Sanguinetti  govern- 
ment authorized  the  reopening  of  the  Soviet-Uruguayan  Cultural 
Center  and,  in  September  1986,  the  opening  of  an  office  of  the 
Soviet  airline  Aeroflot  (Air  Fleet)  in  Montevideo,  with  flights  to 
Moscow  beginning  in  1987.  During  a  meeting  with  Soviet  foreign 
affairs  minister  Eduard  A.  Shevardnadze  at  the  UN  on  Septem- 
ber 24,  1985,  Sanguinetti  asked  for  the  Soviet  Union's  support  for 
Uruguay's  desire  to  join  the  group  of  nations  operating  in  Antarc- 
tica (which  Uruguay  subsequendy  joined).  Shevardnadze  later  visit- 
ed Uruguay  in  October  1987. 

In  the  first  visit  of  a  Uruguayan  president  to  the  Soviet  Union, 
Sanguinetti  visited  Moscow  in  March  1988  and  held  a  ' 'cordial 
and  frank"  two-hour  meeting  with  General  Secretary  Mikhail  S. 
Gorbachev.  Sanguinetti' s  visit  strengthened  trade,  economic,  and 
cultural  relations,  to  include  the  establishment  of  a  joint  Soviet- 
Uruguayan  company.  Sanguinetti  also  visited  certain  East  Euro- 
pean countries,  including  the  German  Democratic  Republic  (East 
Germany),  and  established  trade  relations. 

Optimistic  about  trade  prospects,  Uruguay  established  diplomatic 
and  formal  commercial  relations  with  China  on  February  3,  1988. 
By  1990  China  was  Uruguay's  fourth  largest  trading  partner. 
Although  both  countries  had  conducted  bilateral  trade,  diplomat- 
ic relations  had  been  nonexistent  since  1949.  With  the  opening  of 
diplomatic  ties  with  China,  Uruguay  simultaneously  severed  rela- 
tions with  Taiwan.  In  November  1988,  Sanguinetti  paid  a  six-day 
official  visit  to  China  at  the  head  of  an  eighty-member  delegation 


196 


Government  and  Politics 


and  signed  four  agreements  designed  to  further  strengthen  bilateral 
relations.  China's  President  Yang  Shangkun  reciprocated  with  a 
visit  to  Uruguay  in  May  1990.  The  Sanguinetti  government  also 
established  trade  ties  with  Malaysia  and  Singapore  and  was  plan- 
ning to  reopen  Uruguay's  mission  in  India. 

When  Sanguinetti  assumed  office,  Uruguay  had  only  four  resi- 
dent ambassadors  in  all  of  the  Middle  East  and  Africa.  By  1988 
Uruguay  had  opened  resident  missions  in  Algeria  and  Cote  d'lvoire, 
had  reestablished  relations  with  Tanzania,  and  had  established  ties 
with  Oman,  Qatar,  and  Bahrain.  In  May  1986,  the  Sanguinetti 
government  criticized  what  it  termed  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity  violations  committed  by  the  South  African  government 
against  neighboring  countries.  It  also  denounced  apartheid  and  stat- 
ed its  support  for  the  peoples  and  governments  of  Botswana,  Zam- 
bia, and  Zimbabwe  against  South  African  aggression.  Although 
the  Sanguinetti  government  announced  in  May  1986  that  it  was 
unwilling  to  recognize  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization  (PLO), 
which  it  characterized  as  a  terrorist  organization,  it  accorded  an 
official  reception  at  the  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs  to  a  PLO  dele- 
gation participating  in  the  first  parliamentary  congress  of  socialist 
parties  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  in  June  1989. 

Foreign  Policy  in  1990 

The  general  direction  of  Uruguayan  foreign  policy  was  not  ex- 
pected to  change  significantly  under  President  Lacalle.  His  newly 
designated  foreign  affairs  minister,  Hector  Gros  Espiell,  told  report- 
ers in  January  1990  that  although  there  would  be  specific  changes, 
adjustments,  and  differing  viewpoints,  the  Lacalle  government  in- 
tended to  maintain  the  general  guidelines  of  Uruguay's  existing 
foreign  policy.  Gros  Espiell,  the  former  head  of  Uruguay's  School 
of  Diplomacy,  also  noted,  however,  that  under  the  new  Foreign 
Service  Law  to  be  submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  by  the  Lacalle 
government,  the  foreign  service  would  be  entirely  revamped  to  make 
its  operations  more  responsive  to  the  national  interests. 

Gros  Espiell  also  explained  that  the  Lacalle  government's  for- 
eign policy  would  emphasize  the  trend  toward  regional  integra- 
tion and  that  Uruguay  would  continue  pursuing  its  integration 
policy  with  Argentina  and  Brazil.  According  to  Gros  Espiell,  the 
Rio  de  la  Plata  Basin  would  be  Uruguay's  first  priority  in  foreign 
policy,  with  the  Buenos  Aires-Montevideo-Brasflia  axis  function- 
ing in  coordination  with  the  Montevideo- Asuncion-La  Paz  axis. 
In  talks  with  the  presidents  of  Argentina,  Brazil,  and  Paraguay 
in  early  1990,  Lacalle  discussed  ways  to  increase  regional  integra- 
tion in  the  Rio  de  la  Plata  Basin.  One  of  Lacalle 's  foreign  policy 


197 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

goals  was  to  integrate  Bolivia  and  Paraguay  into  the  Brazilian- 
Uruguayan- Argentine  integration  agreements  and  grant  them  free 
port  facilities. 

Lacalle  favored  using  the  Group  of  Eight  and  ALADI  as  instru- 
ments for  promoting,  with  Argentina,  a  new  Latin  American  in- 
tegration process.  In  January  1990,  he  worked  toward  this  through 
what  he  called  the  Group  of  Seven  (because  Panama's  member- 
ship was  suspended  in  February  1988)  with  the  intention  of  or- 
ganizing, within  five  to  ten  years,  a  true  Latin  American  common 
market.  The  Lacalle  government  wanted  the  Group  of  Eight  (whose 
name  was  changed  in  1 990  to  the  Group  of  Rio)  to  expand  to  in- 
clude Bolivia,  Chile,  Ecuador,  and  Paraguay. 

Lacalle  told  United  States  president  George  H.W.  Bush  during 
their  unofficial  meeting  at  the  White  House  on  February  5,  1990, 
that  Uruguay  could  play  an  important  role  in  the  Rio  de  la  Plata 
Basin,  but  this  role  did  not  materialize  in  1990.  The  Lacalle  govern- 
ment reportedly  had  become  uneasy  over  what  it  perceived  to  be 
a  lack  of  interest  toward  integration  with  Uruguay  shown  by  Ar- 
gentina and  Brazil  (see  Economic  Integration,  ch.  3). 

Both  pro-United  States  and  pro-free  market,  Lacalle  was  expected 
to  enjoy  excellent  relations  with  the  Bush  administration.  Lacalle' s 
support  of  the  United  States  varied,  however,  depending  on  the 
issue.  When  the  United  States  military  intervened  in  Panama  in 
December  1989,  Lacalle  refused  to  recognize  the  new  Panamani- 
an government  of  Guillermo  Endara.  After  the  United  States  troops 
retreated  to  the  former  Canal  Zone  and  their  number  was  reduced 
to  preintervention  levels,  Lacalle  announced  in  March  1990  that 
his  government  would  normalize  relations  with  Panama  by  recog- 
nizing the  Endara  government.  In  keeping  with  its  traditional  po- 
sition condemning  the  use  of  force,  the  Lacalle  government 
denounced  the  invasion  of  Kuwait  by  Iraq  in  early  August  1990, 
urged  action  by  the  UN  Security  Council,  and  endorsed  the  UN 
sanctions  against  Iraq. 

On  other  issues,  Lacalle  favored  the  United  States  policy  posi- 
tion on  the  foreign  debt  problem  and  negotiated  Uruguay's  exter- 
nal debt  based  on  a  proposal  presented  by  Secretary  of  the  Treasury 
Nicolas  Brady  in  March  1989.  The  Brady  Plan  called  for  creditor 
banks  to  write  off  a  portion  of  a  developing  country's  indebted- 
ness in  return  for  guaranteeing  repayment  of  the  remaining  debt 
(see  Foreign  Debt,  ch.  3).  Lacalle  enthusiastically  endorsed  Presi- 
dent Bush's  Enterprise  for  the  Americas  Initiative  (see  Glossary), 
made  on  June  27,  1990,  for  promoting  the  development  of  Latin 
America  by  opening  a  free-trade  partnership  with  the  region,  either 
on  a  bilateral  or  on  a  multilateral  basis.  Lacalle  was  somewhat 


198 


President  Lacalle  addressing  the  Organization  of  American 
States,  Washington,  September  1990 
Courtesy  Organization  of  American  States  (Roberto  Ribeiro) 

ambivalent,  however,  toward  the  United  States  policy  on  drug 
trafficking.  He  viewed  the  issue  as  two  sided,  involving  not  only 
the  Latin  American  producing  countries  but  also  the  principal  con- 
suming country,  the  United  States. 


Although  few  books  on  Uruguay's  government  and  politics  in 
the  1980s  were  available  in  1990,  Uruguay  has  been  the  subject 
of  considerable  scholarly  research.  M.H.J.  Finch  and  Alicia  Ca- 
sas  de  Barran's  Uruguay  lists  comprehensively  and  evaluates  suc- 
cinctly major  sources,  including  recent  doctoral  dissertations,  on 
all  aspects  of  Uruguay.  A  dated  but  still  historically  useful  book 
is  Russell  H.  Fitzgibbon's  Uruguay:  Portrait  of  a  Democracy.  A  more 
up-to-date  introduction  to  the  country  is  Martin  Weinstein's  Uru- 
guay: Democracy  at  the  Crossroads;  his  earlier  book,  Uruguay:  The 
Politics  of  Failure,  analyzes  the  causes  of  Uruguay's  descent  from 
a  model  democracy  to  a  military  dictatorship.  The  human  rights 
abuses  committed  by  the  military  are  detailed  in  Lawrence  Wesch- 
ler's  A  Miracle,  a  Universe:  Settling  Accounts  with  Torturers.  An  inci- 
sive fact-filled  chapter  on  Uruguay's  party  system  may  be  found 


199 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


in  Party  Politics  and  Elections  in  Latin  America  by  Ronald  H.  McDonald 
and  J.  Mark  Ruhl.  In-depth  analyses  of  the  political  party  system 
in  the  1970s  and  early  1980s  can  be  found  in  two  Yale  University 
doctoral  dissertations:  Charles  Guy  Gillespie's  "Party  Strategies 
and  Redemocratization,"  and  Luis  E.  Gonzalez's  "Political  Struc- 
tures and  the  Prospects  for  Democracy  in  Uruguay."  Gillespie's 
Negotiating  Democracy:  Politicians  and  Generals  in  Uruguay  focuses  on 
Uruguay's  transition  to  democracy.  An  informative  monograph 
on  the  November  1989  elections  is  Weinstein's  "Consolidating 
Democracy  in  Uruguay:  The  Sea  Change  of  the  1989  Elections." 
(For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


200 


Chapter  5.  National  Security 


The  colonial  fortress  museum  of  Santa  Teresa  National  Park 
near  Laguna  Negra  in  Rocha  Department 


AS  OF  1990,  URUGUAY  FACED  no  external  threat.  Its  defense 
posture  was  based  on  the  country's  geostrategic  position  as  a  buffer 
state.  Defense  planners  recognized  that  the  nation  could  never  in- 
dependently deter  invasion,  however  unlikely,  by  either  of  its  two 
giant  neighbors — Argentina  and  Brazil — and  instead  counted  on 
obtaining  aid  from  one  should  the  other  attack.  As  a  result,  the 
armed  forces  were  chiefly  organized  to  cope  with  internal  threats, 
although  Uruguay  had  no  terrorist  or  insurgency  problem  in  the 
1980s  and  1990. 

During  the  1960s  and  early  1970s,  an  urban  guerrilla  movement — 
the  National  Liberation  Movement-Tupamaros  (Movimiento  de 
Liberacion  Nacional-Tupamaros — MLN-T) — posed  a  significant 
threat  to  national  security.  The  military  ruthlessly  suppressed  the 
Tupamaros  in  1972  after  the  police  proved  unable  to  do  so. 
Although  the  Tupamaros  had  been  brought  under  control  by  then, 
the  military  seized  control  of  the  government  of  Juan  Maria  Bor- 
daberry  Arocena  (1972-76)  in  1973  in  order  to  suppress  all  activi- 
ty it  interpreted  as  threatening  the  public  order.  The  military's  effort 
to  rationalize  and  legitimize  its  role  as  political  arbiter  was  reject- 
ed in  a  1980  referendum.  The  defeat  was  attributable  to  the  coun- 
try's strong  national  democratic  tradition  and  to  public  bitterness 
over  human  rights  abuses  under  military  rule.  The  military,  itself 
divided  over  the  armed  forces'  proper  role  in  national  political  life, 
accepted  the  public's  decision,  and  civilian  rule  was  restored  com- 
pletely in  1985. 

After  the  resumption  of  civilian  rule,  the  armed  forces  occupied 
a  position  much  like  that  during  the  period  before  military  rule; 
they  were  under  the  control  of  the  civilian  government  and  were 
largely  excluded  from  national  political  and  economic  decision  mak- 
ing. The  armed  forces  continued  to  embrace  a  conservative  and 
anticommunist  political  orientation.  The  military  leadership, 
however,  expressed  its  commitment  to  a  pluralist  democratic  sys- 
tem on  several  occasions  during  the  late  1980s  and  in  1990. 

Acknowledging  reluctandy  that  the  nation  faced  no  serious  threat 
to  internal  order  and  sensitive  to  the  dictates  of  a  constrained  na- 
tional economy,  during  the  late  1980s  the  military  accepted  an 
approximately  20  percent  reduction  in  personnel,  as  well  as  a  sig- 
ficant  reduction  in  spending.  As  of  1990,  armed  forces  strength 
was  about  25,200,  somewhat  higher  than  the  level  maintained  dur- 
ing premilitary  rule. 


203 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

The  army  was  deployed  geographically  under  regional  headquar- 
ters; it  was  organized  and  equipped  principally  as  a  counterinsur- 
gency  force.  The  navy  operated  a  coastal  and  riverine  patrol  fleet; 
it  was  supported  by  a  small  naval  air  arm.  The  air  force  provided 
counterinsurgency  air  support  and  transport  and  logistics  services. 
Equipment  in  all  three  services  was  aging  or  obsolete,  and,  because 
of  shortages  of  spare  parts,  some  equipment  could  not  operate.  The 
straitened  national  economy,  however,  made  replacement  or  modern- 
ization of  the  armed  forces  inventory  unlikely  in  the  near  term. 

Public  order  in  the  late  1980s  was  chiefly  disturbed  by  occa- 
sional— and  usually  not  very  lengthy — public  demonstrations  or 
labor  actions.  Little  violence  was  associated  with  such  activities, 
and  for  the  most  part  the  National  Police  were  able  to  maintain 
public  order  and  contain  ordinary  crime  without  resorting  to  un- 
usual force.  The  National  Police  were  divided  into  local  commands 
under  a  departmental  chief  in  each  of  the  country's  nineteen 
departments. 

Criminal  justice  was  the  responsibility  of  the  national  govern- 
ment. The  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  administered  the  national 
judiciary  and  the  country's  criminal  courts.  Constitutional  guaran- 
tees regarding  civil  rights  and  the  right  to  a  fair  trial  were  routinely 
honored.  Political  prisoners  were  granted  amnesty  in  1985  and 
released  from  prison;  there  have  been  no  credible  reports  of  politi- 
cal arrests  or  human  rights  abuses  since  that  time. 

The  Origin  and  Development  of  the  Armed  Forces 

The  military  history  of  Uruguay  is  rooted  in  seventeenth-  and 
eighteenth-century  clashes  between  settlers  from  Spain's  Viceroyalty 
of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata,  ruled  from  Buenos  Aires  to  the  west,  and 
settlers  from  Portugal's  Viceroyalty  of  Brazil  to  the  northeast  (see 
The  Struggle  for  Independence,  1811-30,  ch.  1).  At  stake  was  the 
territory  on  the  east  bank  of  the  Rio  Uruguay  known  as  the  Ban- 
da  Oriental  (eastern  side,  or  bank),  which  formed  a  buffer  between 
the  two  viceroy alties.  In  1720  Spanish  colonists  built  a  fortress  at 
Montevideo  as  an  overt  manifestation  of  their  interest  in  the  Ban- 
da  Oriental  and  to  put  a  stop  to  Portuguese  expansion. 

Evolution  of  the  Army 

The  first  armed  forces  associated  with  the  Banda  Oriental,  or 
what  was  to  become  Uruguay,  developed  after  the  Spanish  hold 
on  Buenos  Aires  ended  in  1810.  Montevideo,  the  only  Spanish 
stronghold  in  the  area,  soon  became  embroiled  in  the  conflict,  and 
residents  of  the  interior  of  the  Banda  Oriental  rebelled  against  Span- 
ish rule.  Led  by  Jose  Gervasio  Artigas,  the  independence  movement 


204 


The  colonial  Watchman 's  Tower  at  Maldonado 
Courtesy  Prints  and  Photographs  Division,  Library  of  Congress 


205 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

was  started  by  a  band  of  guerrillas  that  first  joined  with  the  in- 
dependent government  in  Argentina  to  help  free  Montevideo  from 
Spanish  rule.  General  Artigas  prematurely  declared  Uruguay  in- 
dependent in  1815  and  formally  took  control  of  the  new  national 
army,  which  consisted  of  one  battalion  of  ethnic  European  settlers 
and  one  battalion  of  freed  slaves  (see  Artigas' s  Revolution,  181 1-20, 
ch.  1). 

After  Uruguay  became  an  independent  state  in  1828,  the  new 
nation's  army  consisted  of  a  poorly  organized  irregular  militia,  of 
which  a  substantial  portion  of  personnel  were  inducted  slaves  or 
minor  criminals  condemned  to  service.  The  army  was  employed 
in  a  short  campaign  in  1832  against  a  remnant  Indian  force.  The 
low  quality  of  the  army's  personnel  and  its  poor  public  image, 
however,  made  it  neither  an  influential  force  in  politics  nor  an  ef- 
fective military  establishment. 

Independence  did  not  bring  peace  or  an  end  to  foreign  military 
intervention.  Uruguay  was  plagued  by  chronic  disorder  and  repeat- 
ed insurrections  supported  by  various  foreign  powers  (see  Begin- 
nings of  Independent  Life,  1830-52,  ch.  1).  Most  of  the  disorder 
derived  from  political  factionalism,  as  evidenced  in  the  1836  struggle 
between  forces  led  by  the  nation's  first  president,  General  Jose  Fruc- 
toso  Rivera  (1830-35,  1838-43),  and  his  successor,  General  Manuel 
Oribe  (1835-38),  who  was  backed  by  Argentina.  In  1838  Rivera's 
army  prevailed,  and  Oribe  fled  to  Buenos  Aires.  Oribe  returned 
in  1842,  however,  and,  using  Blanco  and  Argentine  forces,  com- 
menced a  nine-year  siege  of  Montevideo  that  attracted  French, 
British,  and  Italian  intervention.  The  siege  and  the  war  between 
Colorado  forces  in  Montevideo  and  Blanco  forces  outside  the  cap- 
ital, known  as  the  Great  War  (Guerra  Grande,  1843-52),  helped 
forge  the  identities  of  what  were  to  become  the  nation's  two 
dominant  political  parties  (see  Political  Parties,  ch.  4). 

The  end  of  the  nine-year  siege  of  Montevideo  was  followed  by 
renewed  conflict  and  foreign  intervention.  The  Uruguayan  Army 
in  1852  consisted  of  infantry,  cavalry,  and  artillery  elements  and 
had  a  total  strength  of  some  1,800  personnel;  it  was  nonetheless 
unable  to  control  the  private  political  armies  kept  by  local  caudil- 
los.  In  1858  the  country  established  the  National  Guard,  in  which 
males  between  seventeen  and  forty- seven  years  of  age  were  required 
to  serve.  The  main  effect  of  the  National  Guard,  however,  was 
to  provide  local  caudillos  with  better-trained  personnel  for  their 
armies,  which  operated  under  the  auspices  of  various  factions  of 
the  Colorado  Party  (Partido  Colorado)  or  the  National  Party  (Par- 
tido  Nacional,  usually  referred  to  as  the  Blancos). 


206 


National  Security 


Foreign  intervention  on  behalf  of  the  Blancos  by  Francisco  Solano 
Lopez,  the  Paraguayan  dictator,  embroiled  Uruguay  in  a  bloody 
war  between  the  Triple  Alliance  of  Argentina,  Brazil,  and  Uru- 
guay on  the  one  side  and  Paraguay  on  the  other  side.  During  the 
War  of  the  Triple  Alliance  (1865-70),  some  3,000  Uruguayan 
troops  joined  the  more  professional  armies  of  Brazil  and  Argenti- 
na. The  Uruguayan  Army  emerged  from  the  experience  with  some- 
what more  professional  standards. 

After  the  challenge  of  facing  a  foreign  threat  ended,  the  pattern 
of  armed  Colorado-Blanco  clashes  resumed.  The  war  had  strength- 
ened the  sense  of  national  identity,  but  party  loyalty  remained  in- 
tense, and  for  many  Uruguayans  it  surpassed  loyalty  to  the  state. 
The  army,  itself  highly  politicized,  worked  to  control  banditry,  en- 
gaged in  public- works  projects,  and  was  active  in  controlling  clashes 
between  the  private  political  armies.  The  number  of  combatants 
in  the  interparty  struggles  was  never  large,  and  the  clashes  were 
punctuated  by  a  number  of  peace  pacts  that  ended  specific  upris- 
ings and  formally  redistributed  power  held  by  the  dominant  C  dora- 
dos in  Montevideo  to  accommodate  Blanco  aspirations  outside  the 
capital. 

The  party  clashes  peaked  around  the  turn  of  the  twentieth  cen- 
tury. A  serious  Blanco  rebellion  in  1897  ended  in  a  "pact  between 
the  parties,"  but,  as  in  the  past,  the  Blancos  used  the  opportunity 
to  consolidate  their  power  and  improve  their  armed  strength.  Af- 
ter Colorado  president  Jose  Batlle  y  Ordonez  (1903-07,  1911-15) 
moved  to  check  Blanco  growth,  Blanco  rural  leaders  rose  up  in  1904 
in  the  last  of  the  armed  conflicts  between  the  two  parties  (see  The 
New  Country,  1903-33,  ch.  1). 

After  the  defeat  of  the  Blanco  uprising,  the  army  replaced  the 
private  armed  forces  of  the  caudillos  as  the  nation's  dominant  armed 
force.  Batlle  y  Ordonez  appointed  and  promoted  only  loyal  officers; 
by  1915  almost  all  army  officers  were  Colorados.  In  recognition 
of  the  politicization  of  the  army  and  its  growing  influence,  Batlle 
y  Ordonez  and  other  civilian  leaders  followed  a  careful  policy  of 
balancing  frequent  transfers  of  loyal  and  suspected  units  in  and 
out  of  Montevideo  with  increased  investment  in  weaponry  and  in- 
creased personnel.  As  a  result,  the  army  nearly  doubled  in  size  be- 
tween 1904  and  1914;  it  grew  from  about  6,000  to  12,000  personnel. 
Its  position  as  the  nation's  preeminent  military  force  was  strength- 
ened after  Uruguay  made  it  illegal  to  address  nonmilitary  persons 
with  a  military  title,  which  had  formerly  been  a  common  practice 
among  Blanco  forces. 

As  the  prospect  of  further  revolution  subsided,  the  active-duty 
forces  were  reduced  through  attrition  in  an  effort  to  circumscribe 


207 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


the  army's  political  role.  The  army  was  spared  serious  budget  cut- 
ting but  was  reorganized  into  smaller  units  intended  to  be  expanded 
in  wartime.  The  increase  in  the  number  of  units  meant  more  officers 
and  more  promotions;  at  the  same  time,  the  increase  in  the  num- 
ber of  units  also  made  it  harder  for  officers  to  forge  a  unified  polit- 
ical force.  The  government  and  the  armed  forces  leadership  placed 
new  emphasis  on  developing  an  apolitical  and  professional  mili- 
tary institution,  and  as  a  result  the  army  essentially  withdrew  from 
the  political  arena. 

After  World  War  I,  the  army  came  under  the  influence  of  a 
French  military  mission,  and  officers  began  to  train  at  the  Mili- 
tary Academy  at  St.  Cyr,  France,  and  at  various  specialty  schools 
of  the  French  army.  Under  a  French  plan,  the  country  was  divid- 
ed into  four  military  regions,  and  the  military  air  arm  was  strength- 
ened. Modern  equipment,  including  aircraft,  was  imported  from 
various  European  sources.  The  army  was  used  to  support  a  coup 
by  President  Gabriel  Terra  (1931-38)  in  1933  but  did  little  except 
to  prevent  legislators  from  entering  the  General  Assembly  (the  na- 
tion's bicameral  legislature). 

During  World  War  II,  the  United  States  replaced  France  as  the 
nation's  foremost  foreign  military  influence.  United  States  assistance 
under  the  Lend-Lease  Agreement  focused  primarily  on  aviation. 
The  armed  forces  spent  the  1950s  and  1960s  pursuing  a  program 
of  gradual  equipment  modernization. 

Development  of  the  Navy 

The  Uruguayan  Navy  was  formally  established  in  1860,  and  its 
forces  saw  action  during  the  War  of  the  Triple  Alliance,  principal- 
ly in  a  transport  capacity.  The  modern  Uruguayan  Navy,  however, 
owes  its  professional  development  to  the  establishment  in  1885  of 
the  Military  Academy,  which  offered  training  to  naval  and  other 
officers.  By  1910  navy  strength  was  some  1,300  in  all  ranks,  and 
vessels  included  gunboats  (some  armed  with  torpedoes),  steamers, 
and  various  other  small  craft.  The  separate  Naval  Academy  was 
established  in  1916. 

After  World  War  I,  many  of  the  navy's  aging  vessels  were  with- 
drawn from  service,  and  replacement  was  slow.  The  Naval  Air  Ser- 
vice was  formed  in  1925,  but  the  first  aircraft  were  not  acquired 
until  1930.  The  only  significant  purchase  of  vessels  between  the 
wars  was  three  patrol  vessels  and  a  training  ship.  Personnel  declined 
to  fewer  than  1,000. 

After  the  outbreak  of  World  War  II  and  the  December  1939  Bat- 
tle of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata,  the  government  decided  to  strengthen 
the  navy  and  the  Naval  Air  Service  (see  Baldomir  and  the  End 


208 


National  Security 


of  Dictatorship,  ch.  1).  During  the  1940s  and  1950s,  the  navy,  and 
naval  aviation  in  particular,  benefited  from  United  States  military 
assistance.  In  1959  Uruguay — along  with  the  United  States, 
Argentina,  Brazil,  and  Venezuela — participated  in  the  first  large 
multinational  exercise  involving  Latin  American  navies.  Although 
the  air  arm  (renamed  the  Naval  Aviation  Service  in  1951)  accounted 
for  50  percent  of  naval  personnel  in  1952,  by  the  late  1960s  naval 
air  assets  had  begun  to  be  withdrawn  from  service,  and  few  modern 
replacements  were  acquired.  At  the  same  time,  the  fleet  under- 
went a  modest  expansion,  and  a  battalion  of  marines  was  added. 
During  the  1970s,  the  government  acquired  a  small  number  of  ves- 
sels to  replace  aging  equipment.  In  1981  three  large  patrol  craft 
were  purchased  new  from  France.  The  sole  addition  in  the  late  1980s 
was  a  frigate  purchased  used  from  the  French  navy  and  commis- 
sioned in  late  1988.  In  early  1990,  the  Uruguayan  Navy  received 
two  decommissioned  United  States  Coast  Guard  cutters  for  coastal 
patrol  and  antinarcotics  work  under  a  United  States  Department 
of  State  antinarcotics  program.  Acquisitions  were  insufficient  to 
offset  the  number  of  retired  vessels,  however,  and  a  further  reduc- 
tion of  the  navy's  assets  seemed  likely  as  more  vessels  had  to  be 
withdrawn  from  service. 

Creation  of  an  Independent  Air  Force 

Military  aviation  began  in  1913  as  the  Military  Aeronautics 
Branch  of  the  army,  and  as  early  as  1916  a  flight  training  school 
was  established  near  Montevideo.  By  the  1930s,  the  service  com- 
prised one  bomber  and  three  reconnaissance  flights.  It  operated 
out  of  bases  at  Paso  de  Mendoza  near  Montevideo,  at  Durazno, 
and  at  the  Military  Air  School  at  Pando  in  Canelones  Department. 
Beginning  in  the  late  1940s,  United  States  military  assistance  fo- 
cused on  military  aviation,  and  the  inventory  of  military  aircraft 
increased  in  number  and  quality.  The  Air  Force  Academy  was  es- 
tablished at  Pando  in  1950,  and  aviation  instruction  formerly  con- 
ducted at  the  Military  Academy  was  discontinued.  In  late  1953, 
the  Uruguayan  Air  Force,  which  had  continued  to  function  as  an 
integral  part  of  the  army,  was  established  as  an  autonomous  or- 
ganization, equal  in  status  with  the  army  and  the  navy. 

During  the  1950s,  the  air  force  inventory  was  relatively  well  de- 
veloped. As  equipment  aged,  however,  economic  constraints 
prevented  replacement,  and  the  inventory  grew  smaller.  By  1990 
the  air  force  had  shrunk  to  a  very  modest  size  (about  100  aircraft) 
and  operated  largely  obsolete  equipment.  Given  the  nation's  con- 
tinued economic  problems  and  the  low- threat  environment,  the  air 


209 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


force  appeared  likely  to  remain  a  well- trained,  professional  force 
but  one  that  was  poorly  equipped. 

The  Growth  of  Military  Involvement  in  Politics 

Until  the  1960s,  the  military  was  mostly  ignored  by  politicians 
and  played  a  marginal  role  in  Uruguayan  political  life.  A  military 
career  lacked  prestige  and  respect.  Officers  came  mainly  from  the 
lower  middle  class  in  the  small  towns  and  cities  of  the  interior;  troops 
were  recruited  from  the  lowest  strata  of  the  rural  sector,  mainly 
from  the  estancias  (ranches)  or  from  the  ranks  of  the  unemployed 
in  the  urban  shanty  towns  (cantegriles) . 

In  the  second  half  of  the  1960s,  the  military  began  to  function 
in  a  limited  law  enforcement  capacity  after  the  national  economy 
suffered  a  serious  downturn  and  public  discontent  increasingly  came 
to  disrupt  internal  order.  Initially  backing  up  the  National  Police 
in  confrontations  with  union  members,  students,  and  other  pro- 
testers, the  military  was  drawn  further  into  the  struggle  as  the  de- 
cade progressed,  manning  road  blocks,  conducting  searches,  and 
eventually  becoming  targets  themselves.  The  most  significant  threat 
to  public  order  was  the  growth  of  the  urban  guerrilla  movement 
known  as  the  MLN-T,  whose  adherents  were  more  commonly 
known  as  Tupamaros. 

The  armed  forces  leadership  was  divided  internally  over  the  mili- 
tary' s  new  role,  but  antipathy  toward  the  Tupamaros'  Marxist  po- 
litical philosophy  was  strong  among  the  politically  conservative, 
staunchly  anticommunist  military  leadership.  Initially,  the  police 
had  been  charged  with  handling  the  problem,  but  as  the  disorder 
worsened,  many  in  the  armed  forces  grew  impatient  with  the  police's 
lack  of  success.  When  President  Jorge  Pacheco  Areco  (1967-72) 
called  on  the  army  to  take  over  responsibility  for  the  problem  on 
September  9,  1971,  the  Army  Intelligence  Service  began  to  draw 
up  a  military  offensive.  After  the  Tupamaros  escalated  the  guer- 
rilla campaign  in  April  1972,  President  Bordaberry,  Pacheco 's  suc- 
cessor, and  the  General  Assembly  declared  a  state  of  "internal  war" 
against  them.  The  army  was  prepared,  and  the  insurgency  was 
crushed  within  a  few  months  (see  Pachequism,  1967-72,  ch.  1). 

By  this  time,  however,  the  armed  forces  leadership  had  agreed 
that  the  military's  duty  to  the  nation  required  it  to  pursue  a  level 
of  internal  order  that  was  untroubled  by  leftist,  student,  labor,  or 
other  opposition  or  protest.  The  suspension  of  constitutional  pro- 
tections during  the  state  of  internal  war  was  therefore  prolonged 
by  new  legislation  that  put  harsh  controls  on  the  press  and  on  dis- 
sent. The  new  laws  also  stated  that  persons  charged  with  crimes 


210 


National  Security 


against  the  national  security  were  denied  normal  legal  protections 
and  were  subject  to  preventive  detention  and  trial  in  military  courts. 

In  June  1973,  the  military  compelled  President  Bordaberry  to 
accept  suspension  of  the  democratic  process  and  institute  military 
rule  through  the  creation  of  the  National  Security  Council  (Con- 
sejo  de  Seguridad  Nacional — Cosena),  made  up  of  the  commanders 
in  chief  of  the  army,  navy,  and  air  force,  plus  an  additional  senior 
military  officer,  and  the  ministers  of  national  defense,  interior,  and 
foreign  affairs.  The  General  Assembly  was  abolished  on  June  27 
and  replaced  with  the  thirty-member  Council  of  State  (Consejo  de 
Estado).  A  new  armed  forces  organic  law,  adopted  in  February 
1974,  assigned  the  military  the  role  of  protector  of  the  nation's  tradi- 
tional way  of  life  against  a  communist  threat.  Beyond  that  general 
mission,  however,  the  military  had  no  coherent  ideological  agen- 
da or  any  organized  plan  for  national  development.  No  charismatic 
military  leader  emerged  to  centralize  power.  Instead,  decision  mak- 
ing was  characterized  by  consensus  among  senior  officers,  who  were 
determined  to  use  the  military's  new  powers  to  impose  internal 
order  (see  The  Military  Government,  1973-85,  ch.  1). 

Until  the  1972-73  period,  the  Uruguayan  armed  forces  were 
among  the  least  politicized  in  Latin  America.  The  military  had  littie 
experience  in  political  affairs  and  no  corporate  political  philosophy 
beyond  a  belief  in  democracy  and  an  antipathy  toward  communism 
and  extreme  leftist  political  thought.  Many  within  the  armed  forces 
viewed  the  military's  assumption  of  power  in  1973  as  a  necessary 
but  unfortunate  interruption  of  the  nation's  democratic  tradition. 
A  significant  element  within  the  military  was  never  comfortable 
with  the  institution's  expanded  role,  however.  Nonetheless,  dur- 
ing the  period  of  military  rule,  senior  and  sometimes  mid-level 
officers  served  in  positions  of  responsibility  in  various  government 
agencies,  the  National  Police,  some  businesses,  and  autonomous 
entities  (autonomous  agencies  or  state  enterprises;  see  Glossary). 
In  general,  military  personnel  assigned  to  such  posts  found  them- 
selves poorly  prepared  in  terms  of  either  training  or  education  to 
take  on  new  responsibilities. 

During  the  1973-80  period,  the  military  moved  ruthlessly  against 
all  it  deemed  a  security  threat.  An  estimated  6,000  citizens  were 
tried  in  the  military  courts,  and  critics  charged  that  tens  of  thou- 
sands were  detained,  denied  legal  rights,  or  abused  or  tortured. 
During  the  same  period,  the  military  grew  from  some  22,000  to 
an  estimated  30,000,  and  military  officers  began  to  serve  as  heads 
of  state  enterprises  and  as  governors  of  departments. 

In  1980  the  military  government  attempted  to  legitimize  the 
armed  forces'  political  role  by  submitting  to  public  referendum  a 


211 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


new  constitution  that  effectively  gave  the  armed  forces  veto  power 
within  a  restricted  democracy.  The  regime  publicly  campaigned 
that  the  constitution  moved  the  nation  toward  democracy.  The 
government  also  identified  opposition  to  the  referendum  with  sup- 
port for  communism  or,  conversely,  with  support  for  continued 
military  rule.  Nonetheless,  opposition  positions  were  permitted  ex- 
pression, and  the  proposed  constitution  was  rejected  by  57  per- 
cent of  the  populace. 

The  armed  forces  leadership  then  instituted  a  process  of  slow 
disengagement  from  economic,  political,  and  administrative  posi- 
tions of  power.  Surprising  many  local  and  foreign  observers,  the 
president  of  the  Council  of  the  Nation  (Consejo  de  la  Nacion,  con- 
sisting of  the  Council  of  State  and  twenty-eight  military  officers), 
which  became  the  supreme  governing  body  in  1976,  appointed  a 
retired  military  general  as  president  of  an  interim  administration 
designed  to  initiate  a  process  to  return  the  country  to  civilian  leader- 
ship in  1985.  In  March  1984,  the  military  negotiated  the  Naval 
Club  Pact  with  most  of  the  nation's  political  parties  to  design  the 
transition,  which  included  reestablishment  of  the  General  Assem- 
bly. In  March  1985,  a  new  civilian  president,  Julio  Maria  San- 
guinetti  Cairolo  (1985-90),  was  inaugurated.  After  1985  the  military 
leadership  devoted  itself  to  the  management  of  a  depoliticized  and 
professional  armed  forces  establishment. 

The  process  of  the  military's  withdrawal  from  national  political 
life  was  difficult.  There  were  charges  in  the  1985-86  period,  for 
instance,  that  the  armed  forces  intelligence  services  continued  to 
monitor  opposition  groups  as  potential  sources  of  subversion.  Such 
charges  had  died  down  by  the  late  1980s,  after  passage  of  a  new 
armed  forces  law  that  reaffirmed  the  supremacy  of  civilian  com- 
mand and  after  senior  military  leaders  made  public  statements  of 
allegiance  to  civilian  democratic  rule. 

The  most  difficult  issue  facing  the  nation  in  the  wake  of  the  return 
to  civilian  rule  was  how  to  treat  military  officers  who  had  committed 
offenses  during  the  period  of  military  rule.  In  an  effort  to  calm  mili- 
tary and  police  fears  and  to  put  the  nation's  troubled  past  behind  it, 
the  Chamber  of  Representatives  passed,  by  a  vote  of  sixty  to  thirty- 
seven,  an  amnesty  bill  on  December  22,  1986,  to  prevent  prose- 
cution of  nearly  all  such  offenses.  Almost  immediately,  opponents 
of  the  law  launched  a  movement  to  bring  the  bill  to  a  public  referen- 
dum. After  protracted  legal  deliberations,  the  bill  was  placed  before 
the  voters  in  1989,  and  the  public  voted  to  retain  the  amnesty  provi- 
sions. As  of  the  end  of  1990,  the  military  continued  to  play  a  very 
minor  role  in  the  national  economic  and  political  life,  and  officers 
were  no  longer  seconded  to  serve  in  the  civilian  administration. 


A  guard  stands  at  a  monument 
to  General  Artigas 
in  preparation  for  a 
memorial  ceremony. 
Courtesy  United  States 
Department  of  Defense 


The  Armed  Forces  in  the  National  Life 

The  armed  forces  continued  to  contribute  to  national  develop- 
ment through  civic-action  programs  in  1990.  The  army's  engineers 
were  heavily  involved  in  road  building,  repair,  and  maintenance; 
bridge  construction;  maintenance  of  the  internal  telecommunica- 
tions network;  and  construction  of  public- works  projects,  such  as 
schools  and  government  buildings.  The  army's  Military  Geographic 
Service  was  responsible  for  all  mapping.  The  navy  trained  and  su- 
pervised the  nation's  merchant  marine  and  operated  navigational 
aids  along  inland  waterways.  The  navy  also  conducted  oceano- 
graphic  studies,  and  its  port  facilities  provided  support  and  repair 
to  Uruguay's  fishing  and  merchant  fleets.  The  air  force  controlled 
and  maintained  the  country's  airports  and  regulated  civil  aviation. 
It  also  transported  passengers  and  cargo  to  isolated  areas. 

All  services  provided  disaster- relief  assistance.  The  army,  for 
instance,  constructed  emergency  dams  and  provided  transportation 
in  times  of  special  need.  The  air  force  was  active  in  search-and- 
rescue  operations,  air  evacuation,  and  airlifts  of  emergency  sup- 
plies. The  navy  provided  surface  and  air  rescue  operations  at 
sea,  and  in  times  of  flooding  it  provided  emergency  transportation. 

Manpower 

Unlike  most  Latin  American  countries,  entrance  into  the  armed 


213 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

forces  was  entirely  through  voluntary  recruitment;  there  was  no 
system  of  compulsory  service.  Initial  enlistment  was  for  one-  or 
two-year  terms,  depending  on  the  service  and  the  assignment,  and 
there  was  litde  difficulty  in  filling  vacancies.  Recruits  were  attracted 
by  benefits,  which  included  early  retirement  with  pension,  and  by 
the  opportunity  to  attend  armed  forces  schools,  which  provided  skills 
useful  in  civilian  occupations.  Noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs) 
were  career  soldiers,  sailors,  or  airmen  who  were  chosen  from  the 
recruits  toward  the  end  of  the  initial  period  of  service.  The  small 
size  of  the  armed  forces  permitted  selection  of  physically  qualified 
applicants;  in  keeping  with  the  country's  high  literacy  rate  (96  per- 
cent in  1990),  recruits  generally  had  at  least  a  basic  education  (see 
Education,  ch.  2). 

In  1990  over  573,000  males  were  fit  for  military  service;  enlist- 
ed personnel  were  between  eighteen  and  forty-five  years  of  age. 
A  loosely  organized  reserve  was  made  up  of  approximately  120,000 
former  members  of  the  armed  forces.  Constituting  only  about  0.8 
percent  of  the  total  population,  the  armed  forces  were  not  a  drain 
on  the  country's  work  force. 

Morale  in  the  military  services  was  generally  adequate  in  1990. 
The  1 989  defeat  of  the  referendum  to  overturn  amnesty  provisions 
for  most  military  personnel  who  committed  offenses  during  the  peri- 
od of  military  rule  appeared  to  quell  any  lingering  uneasiness  in 
the  armed  forces  over  the  relinquishment  of  power.  The  decrease 
in  personnel  during  the  1985-87  period  drew  some  protest,  espe- 
cially among  those  forced  to  leave  service.  Low  levels  of  pay  con- 
tinued to  be  a  major  morale  problem,  despite  a  number  of  partially 
compensating  benefits.  The  Ministry  of  National  Defense  report- 
ed in  mid-1988  that  from  1973  to  1988  enlisted  men's  salaries  lost 
34  percent  of  their  purchasing  power;  officers'  salaries,  44  percent; 
and  auxiliary  personnel's,  21.5  percent. 

Military  personnel,  active-duty  and  retired,  as  well  as  their  de- 
pendents, were  entitled  to  medical  care  provided  by  the  armed  forces 
medical  services.  Officers  could  retire  on  partial  pay  after  twenty 
years  of  service  and  on  full  pay  after  thirty  years.  NCOs  received 
the  same  benefits  after  fifteen  and  twenty  years  of  service,  respec- 
tively. Additional  allowances  were  provided  for  hazardous  duty. 

Military  Justice 

According  to  the  constitution  of  1967,  the  military  justice  sys- 
tem had  jurisdiction  over  military  offenders  who  committed  crimes 
during  wartime;  in  peacetime  the  system  had  jurisdiction  only  over 
military  personnel  charged  with  committing  military  offenses.  Dur- 
ing the  period  of  military  rule,  civilians  charged  with  crimes  against 


214 


National  Security 


the  national  security  were  tried  by  military  courts,  as  were  most 
offenses  committed  by  military  personnel.  The  role  of  the  military 
justice  system  was  greatly  reduced  because  of  the  return  to  democra- 
cy, however,  and  since  that  time  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  has 
consistently  held  that  in  peacetime,  jurisdictional  disputes  between 
the  parallel  civil  and  military  court  systems  should  be  resolved  in 
favor  of  the  civil  courts.  Whenever  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice 
accepted  a  military  case  on  appeal,  the  law  required  that  two  mili- 
tary judges  serve  on  the  court  on  an  ad  hoc  basis. 

The  Supreme  Military  Tribunal,  which  was  composed  of  five 
members,  four  of  whom  had  to  be  military  field- grade  officers,  was 
the  highest  military  appeals  court  for  military  offenders.  Beneath 
it  were  two  military  judges  of  first  instance,  who  had  original  juris- 
diction over  serious  offenses  and  appellate  jurisdiction  over  less  seri- 
ous offenses.  Those  who  had  committed  less  serious  offenses  were 
first  tried  by  lower  court  judges. 

Defense  Spending 

According  to  the  latest  government  figures  available  in  1990, 
the  defense  budget  for  1986  was  N$Ur22.8  billion  (for  value  of  the 
Uruguayan  new  peso — see  Glossary),  or  between  US$125  million 
and  US$150  million,  depending  on  the  source  of  information.  The 
figure  represented  approximately  11.8  percent  of  total  central 
government  expenditures,  down  from  the  12  percent  to  15  per- 
cent levels  sustained  in  the  early  1980s.  When  measured  in  cur- 
rent pesos,  military  spending  rose  sharply  during  the  1979-86 
period.  When  factoring  in  inflation,  however,  spending  rose  slowly 
during  the  1977-81  period,  then  fell  approximately  20  percent  over 
the  1982-86  period. 

The  decline  in  real  growth  in  the  defense  budget  during  the 
1982-86  period  was  accompanied  by  a  dramatic  depreciation  of 
the  peso,  making  the  dollar  value  of  defense  spending  fall  by  some 
62  percent  over  the  period.  This  decline  had  a  serious  effect  on 
military  readiness  by  virtually  precluding  importation  of  spare  parts, 
replacements,  or  modern  equipment.  Between  1977  and  1983,  mili- 
tary equipment  had  accounted  for  between  0 . 5  and  3 . 7  percent  of 
total  annual  imports.  From  1984  to  1987,  the  nation  imported  no 
military  supplies.  As  of  1990,  a  frigate  imported  in  1988  from  France 
represented  the  only  significant  purchase  of  military  equipment  after 
1983.  There  were  unconfirmed  reports  in  the  international  press, 
however,  that  in  March  1990  the  nation  purchased  two  more  frigates 
of  the  same  class. 

When  compared  with  other  Latin  American  countries,  the  por- 
tion of  the  national  budget  devoted  to  defense  was  above  average. 


215 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

The  military's  portion  of  the  gross  national  product  (GNP — see 
Glossary)  was  about  2.4  percent  in  1986,  in  the  middle  range  for 
Latin  American  nations. 

Until  the  late  1970s,  the  defense  budget  was  augmented  by  large 
amounts  of  United  States  military  assistance.  Over  the  1950-77 
period,  the  country  received  nearly  US$60  million  of  assistance 
in  the  form  of  grants  and  credits  from  the  United  States.  During 
the  1977-78  period,  however,  the  nation  refused  further  assistance 
in  response  to  harsh  criticism  from  the  administration  of  President 
Jimmy  Carter  over  the  military  government's  human  rights  abuses. 
The  United  States  resumed  military  assistance  to  Uruguay  in  1987, 
after  the  return  to  civilian  rule,  but  on  a  very  limited  level,  in  keep- 
ing with  the  overall  reduction  of  United  States  security  assistance 
worldwide.  Aid  during  the  1987-90  period  consisted  of  approxi- 
mately US$1  million  in  grants  intended  to  maintain  equipment 
acquired  from  the  United  States.  The  United  States  also  funded 
the  education  of  a  small  number  of  Uruguayan  military  personnel 
at  United  States  military  facilities  under  the  International  Mili- 
tary Education  and  Training  (IMET)  program.  IMET  assistance 
in  United  States  fiscal  year  (FY)  1990  totaled  US$124,000.  The 
United  States  Department  of  Defense's  FY  1991  request  totaled 
US$200,000. 

Uruguay  did  not  export  any  military  equipment.  The  domestic 
defense  industry  was  very  limited  in  scope  and  produced  only  the 
most  basic  military  supplies,  such  as  small-arms  ammunition,  uni- 
forms, and  stores.  The  only  exception  was  the  navy's  shipyard, 
which  built  small  patrol  craft  and  was  capable  of  providing  dry- 
dock,  overhaul,  and  repair  support. 

Armed  Forces  Organization;  Training,  and  Equipment 

Under  the  constitution,  the  president  is  commander  in  chief  of 
the  armed  forces  and  exercises  administrative  control  over  the  three 
services  through  the  Ministry  of  National  Defense.  In  practice,  oper- 
ational control  passed  through  the  service  commanders,  who  were 
appointed  by  the  president.  There  was  a  nominal  chief  of  the  joint 
staff  but  no  substantive  joint  staff  organization.  In  1990  the  defense 
minister  was  a  former  law  professor  who  had  been  active  in  the 
transition  to  democracy.  Assistants  from  each  of  the  three  services 
were  assigned  to  the  minister. 

During  the  1973-85  period,  first  the  military  government's  Coun- 
cil of  State  and  then  the  Council  of  the  Nation  passed  several  laws 
that  limited  the  president's  military  control.  Principal  among  these 
was  the  February  1974  decree  that  served  as  an  organic  law  for  the 
armed  forces.  Under  this  law,  the  commanders  of  the  three  services 


216 


National  Security 


were  chosen  by  a  board  of  generals  from  each  respective  service. 
During  the  1984-85  transition  to  civilian  rule,  the  appointment 
procedure  was  amended  so  that  the  boards  of  generals  chose  can- 
didates from  which  the  president  then  appointed  service  chiefs  of 
staff.  In  1986  the  reestablished  General  Assembly  returned  the  power 
of  direct  appointment  of  the  service  commanders  to  the  president. 

In  1987  the  General  Assembly  passed  a  new  organic  law  for  the 
armed  forces  establishing  that  the  ''basic  duty  of  the  armed  forces 
is  to  defend  the  honor,  independence,  and  the  peace  of  the  repub- 
lic, its  territorial  integrity,  its  Constitution,  and  its  laws."  The  law 
explicitly  stated  that  the  armed  forces  should  always  act  under  the 
supreme  command  of  the  president  and  the  minister  of  national 
defense  in  keeping  with  constitutional  measures  currently 
in  force.  Training  practices  were  modified  to  include  courses  for 
military  cadets  on  the  proper  role  of  the  military  in  a  democracy. 
The  length  a  service  commander  could  serve  was  cut  from  eight 
to  five  years,  and  service  commanders  were  required  to  retire  when 
the  term  of  service  expired.  As  of  1990,  the  government  and  the 
armed  forces  appeared  to  be  adhering  to  all  provisions  of  the  law. 

The  Ministry  of  National  Defense  was  responsible  for  the  ad- 
ministration of  military  training,  health,  communications,  and  con- 
struction, and  it  supervised  the  military  retirement  and  pension 
system.  The  ministry  supervised  the  triservice  Military  Institute 
for  Advanced  Studies,  which  served  as  a  national  war  college  to 
train  senior  officers.  Also  under  the  ministry  was  the  General  Direc- 
torate of  Defense  Information  (Direction  General  de  Information 
de  Defensa — DGID).  As  reorganized  by  the  executive  branch  in 
1989,  the  DGID  was  a  triservice  agency  that  coordinated  and 
planned  all  operations  of  the  three  separate  military  intelligence 
services.  Traditionally,  the  army's  intelligence  branch  was  the  most 
powerful  of  the  military  intelligence  services. 

The  country  was  divided  into  four  military  regions.  Military 
Region  I,  headquartered  at  Montevideo,  had  responsibility  for  the 
national  capital  and  the  departments  of  Montevideo  and  Canelones 
(see  fig.  1).  Military  Region  II,  headquartered  at  San  Jose,  included 
the  departments  of  Colonia,  Durazno,  Flores,  Florida,  San  Jose, 
and  Soriano.  Military  Region  III,  headquartered  at  Paso  de  los 
Toros,  comprised  the  departments  of  Artigas,  Paysandu,  Rio 
Negro,  Rivera,  Salto,  and  Tacuarembo.  Military  Region  IV,  head- 
quartered at  Maldonado,  included  the  departments  of  Cerro  Largo, 
Lavalleja,  Maldonado,  Rocha,  and  Treinta  y  Tres. 

Uruguay  had  cordial  foreign  military  relations  with  both  Argen- 
tina and  Brazil,  as  well  as  with  the  United  States.  During  the 
1980s,  armed  forces  personnel  represented  the  nation  in  foreign 


217 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

peacekeeping  activities  in  Cambodia,  on  the  Angola-Namibia  border, 
in  the  Sinai,  and  on  the  Iran-Iraq  border.  Uruguay  was  a  member 
of  the  Inter- American  Defense  Board  (IADB),  which  maintained 
a  headquarters  and  staff  in  Washington  and  acted  as  a  military 
advisory  group  to  the  Organization  of  American  States  (OAS),  of 
which  Uruguay  was  also  a  member. 

Uruguay  had  a  long  history  of  military  cooperation  with  neigh- 
boring countries.  It  joined  with  twenty  other  Latin  American  na- 
tions and  the  United  States  in  1945  to  sign  the  Act  of  Chapultepec, 
in  which  each  agreed  to  consult  on  any  aggression  against  a  co- 
signatory. Uruguay  was  also  a  signatory  to  the  1947  Inter- American 
Treaty  of  Reciprocal  Assistance  (Rio  Treaty),  in  which  the  Unit- 
ed States  and  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  countries  commit- 
ted themselves  to  working  toward  the  peaceful  setdement  of  disputes 
and  collective  self-defense  in  the  Americas.  Uruguay  also  was  a 
signatory  to  the  1967  Treaty  for  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
in  Latin  America  (Tlatelolco  Treaty)  and  the  Treaty  on  the  Non- 
Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  Uruguay  also  accepted  the 
Biological  Weapons  Convention,  which  prohibits  the  development, 
production,  or  stockpiling  of  such  weapons. 

Army 

In  May  1990,  Lieutenant  General  Guillermo  de  Nava,  the  army 
commander,  defined  the  army's  mission  and  the  role  of  its  mem- 
bers. He  stressed  that  "for  the  government  and  the  country  the 
most  important  action  of  the  army  is  the  exact  compliance  with 
our  fundamental  role  that  is  defined  in  the  law  and  which  consists 
of  defending  the  honor,  the  independence,  and  the  peace  of  the 
Republic,  the  integrity  of  its  territory,  its  Constitution,  and  its 
laws."  He  also  maintained  that  the  armed  forces  must  take  action 
against  "all  types  of  aggression." 

Army  personnel  in  1990  numbered  some  17,200,  a  reduction 
of  22  percent  from  the  1983  level  of  22,000.  The  army  consisted 
of  infantry,  cavalry,  artillery,  engineer,  signal,  administrative, 
transport,  materiel,  medical,  and  veterinary  services.  The  chief  of 
the  army  staff  presided  over  staff  sections  for  personnel,  intelligence, 
operations  and  instruction,  logistics,  and  public  relations. 

The  army's  main  tactical  units  were  organized  under  four  corps 
headquarters  that  were  administrative  rather  than  operational.  Each 
corps  was  located  in  one  of  the  four  military  regions  (each  army 
corps  bore  the  same  number  as  the  military  region).  The  four  corps 
together  had  one  independent  infantry  brigade,  fifteen  infantry  bat- 
talions, six  engineer  battalions,  six  artillery  battalions,  and  ten 
cavalry  battalions  (four  horsed,  three  mechanized,  two  motorized, 


218 


National  Security 


and  one  armored).  Each  corps  was  responsible  for  at  least  three 
infantry  battalions,  one  engineer  battalion,  and  one  field  artillery 
battalion,  as  well  as  logistics,  signals,  and  support  units.  The  num- 
ber and  type  of  cavalry  battalions  within  each  corps  varied. 

The  First  Corps  at  Montevideo  was  traditionally  the  most  power- 
ful of  the  army's  main  command  elements.  Its  cavalry  units  in- 
cluded one  horsed  battalion,  one  mechanized  battalion  with  scout 
cars,  and  one  motorized  battalion.  The  artillery  command  of  the 
First  Corps  had  one  antiaircraft  battalion  in  addition  to  its  field 
artillery  battalion. 

One  independent  infantry  brigade  headquarters  that  performed 
many  of  the  army's  administrative  functions  was  attached  to  army 
headquarters  at  Montevideo.  The  brigade  was  responsible  for  one 
armored  battalion,  one  airborne  battalion,  and  one  ranger  infan- 
try battalion.  Also  at  the  army  level  was  one  motorized  cavalry 
battalion  that  functioned  as  a  presidential  bodyguard  and  performed 
ceremonial  duties.  One  engineer  brigade  made  up  of  two  battal- 
ions, as  well  as  assorted  logistics  and  support  elements,  completed 
the  units  assigned  to  army  headquarters. 

The  Second  Corps  was  headquartered  at  San  Jose.  Under  it  was 
an  armored  cavalry  battalion  equipped  with  light  tanks  and  armored 
personnel  carriers  (APCs).  The  Third  Corps,  at  Paso  de  los  Toros, 
had  two  horsed  battalions  and  one  mechanized  cavalry  battalion. 
One  of  its  infantry  battalions  was  equipped  with  APCs.  The  Fourth 
Corps  was  headquartered  at  Minas.  Within  the  Fourth  Corps,  one 
horsed  battalion  and  one  mechanized  cavalry  battalion  were  lo- 
cated at  Melo. 

Major  ground  force  arms  were  relatively  heterogeneous  in  ori- 
gin. Much  was  obsolete  United  States  equipment,  some  acquired 
thirdhand  from  various  foreign  sources.  The  armor  inventory  in- 
cluded fifty-four  light  tanks,  all  of  United  States  or  Belgian  origin 
(see  table  19,  Appendix).  The  army  also  had  Belgian-,  United 
States-,  and  Brazilian-made  armored  vehicles.  APCs  included  Unit- 
ed States  and  West  German  models.  Artillery  pieces  and  air  defense 
guns  were  of  Swedish,  Argentine,  and  United  States  manufacture. 
In  general,  the  entire  inventory  was  aging  and  in  need  of  modern- 
ization, but  economic  considerations — combined  with  the  absence 
of  a  significant  internal  or  external  threat — made  it  unlikely  that 
new  equipment  would  be  ordered  in  the  near  future. 

Army  officers  were  trained  at  the  four-year  Military  Academy, 
from  which  they  were  commissioned  as  second  lieutenants.  The 
army's  School  of  Arms  and  Services  provided  specialist  training 
for  recruits  and  officers.  The  Command  and  Staff  School  trained 
mid-level  officers  for  promotion  to  staff  or  field  positions. 


219 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 
Navy 

As  of  1990,  naval  strength  stood  at  4,500,  which  included  both 
naval  air  personnel  and  marines.  Personnel  had  been  reduced  from 
a  high  of  6,200  in  1983.  The  only  naval  base  in  operation  was  lo- 
cated at  Montevideo,  where  facilities  included  a  dry  dock  and  a 
slipway.  In  addition  to  the  naval  staff,  the  navy's  commander  was 
assisted  by  the  chief  of  forces  afloat  and  the  chiefs  of  naval  educa- 
tion and  training,  naval  aviation,  customs,  and  the  marine  police. 

The  navy  was  active  in  riverine  and  offshore  patrol,  transport, 
and  sea-and-air  rescue.  In  the  late  1980s,  naval  vessels  seized  for- 
eign boats  caught  fishing  illegally  in  the  country's  territorial  waters. 
The  navy  also  played  a  role  in  interdicting  drug  traffickers. 

The  fleet  command  was  divided  into  one  escort  division  and  one 
patrol  division.  The  escort  division  operated  a  newly  acquired 
French  frigate,  as  well  as  one  other  frigate,  one  destroyer  escort, 
and  one  corvette,  all  formerly  in  service  with  the  United  States  Navy 
(see  table  20,  Appendix).  The  patrol  division  had  three  relatively 
modern  French-built  large  patrol  craft,  one  antiquated  Italian-built 
large  patrol  craft,  two  United  States-built  large  patrol  craft  (deliv- 
ered in  February  1990),  and  two  small  patrol  craft.  The  fleet  also 
included  one  minesweeper,  five  amphibious  landing  craft,  one  train- 
ing vessel,  and  a  small  number  of  support  and  utility  craft.  An  ad- 
ditional two  frigates  of  the  same  class  (Riviere)  as  that  purchased 
in  1988  were  contracted  for  in  February  1990.  The  ships  were  due 
for  extensive  refitting,  making  their  delivery  date  uncertain. 

Uruguayan  Naval  Aviation  had  400  personnel.  Operations  were 
divided  into  combat,  communications,  and  training  elements.  All 
naval  aircraft  were  based  at  the  naval  air  base  at  Laguna  del  Sauce 
in  Maldonado  Department.  The  marine  detachment  numbered  500 
and  was  organized  into  a  single  battalion. 

All  naval  schools  were  located  at  the  Naval  Training  Center  in 
the  Montevideo  port  area.  Naval  officers  underwent  a  five-year 
course  at  the  Naval  Academy,  graduates  of  which  were  also  com- 
missioned in  the  National  Maritime  Police  and  the  merchant  ma- 
rine. The  senior  school  for  naval  officers  was  the  Naval  War  College. 
Enlisted  personnel  were  trained  at  the  School  of  Naval  Speciali- 
zation. 

The  navy  commanded  the  1,500-strong  National  Maritime 
Police,  which  performed  coast  guard  duties,  supervised  the  nation's 
ports  and  merchant  marine,  and  acted  as  a  harbor  police.  The  mar- 
itime police  operated  three  small  patrol  craft  and  a  buoy  tender. 
Its  personnel  were  trained  by  the  navy. 


220 


National  Security 

Air  Force 

Air  force  strength  in  1990  was  3,500,  down  from  4,400  in  1983. 
The  air  force  was  equipped  with  eighteen  combat  aircraft,  seven 
of  which  were  used  principally  as  trainers  (see  table  21,  Appen- 
dix). The  air  force  generally  operated  out  of  bases  at  Paso  de  Men- 
doza,  Carrasco,  Durazno,  Laguna  del  Sauce,  Laguna  Negra,  and 
Punta  del  Este. 

The  commander  of  the  air  force  was  assisted  by  a  staff  with  sec- 
tions for  personnel,  intelligence,  operations,  and  materiel.  The  air 
force  was  organized  into  tactical,  training,  and  materiel  commands. 
The  Tactical  Air  Command,  whose  headquarters  were  at  Carras- 
co Air  Base  outside  of  Montevideo,  was  responsible  for  the  opera- 
tion of  most  of  the  service's  assets.  These  were  apportioned  between 
two  air  brigades.  The  first  had  one  fighter  squadron,  three  trans- 
port squadrons  (which  were  also  responsible  for  regular  civilian 
flights),  and  a  sea-and-air  rescue  group  at  Carrasco.  The  second 
brigade,  at  Durazno  Air  Base,  had  one  training  squadron  for  fight- 
ers and  one  liaison  unit  with  other  aircraft. 

The  Air  Training  Command,  with  one  training  squadron,  was 
headquartered  at  the  General  Artigas  Military  Airport  in  Pando. 
It  oversaw  the  Air  Force  Academy  and  the  Military  Air  School  at 
Pando  and  the  Command  and  General  Staff  School  at  Carrasco, 
which  provided  advanced  training  for  officers.  The  Air  Technical 
School  at  Pando  gave  specialist  training  to  officers  and  trained  air 
force  recruits.  The  school  also  trained  paratroopers  for  the  army. 
Attached  to  the  Air  Training  Command  were  a  small  number  of 
fixed- wing  and  rotary  aircraft.  The  Air  Materiel  Command  con- 
sisted of  maintenance,  supply,  communications,  and  electronics 
elements.  It  also  oversaw  the  administration  and  operation  of  mili- 
tary and  civilian  airfields. 

Uniforms,  Ranks,  and  Insignia 

All  three  branches  of  the  service  had  summer,  winter,  and  dress 
uniforms.  The  army  winter  uniform  was  made  of  green  gabardine, 
and  the  summer  uniform  was  made  of  beige  tropical  worsted.  For 
dress,  a  white  blouse  was  worn  in  the  summer.  Navy  and  air  force 
uniforms  were  similar  in  style  and  color  to  those  of  the  respective 
United  States  forces.  The  blouse  of  the  navy  winter  uniform  was 
double  breasted,  and  that  of  the  summer  uniform  was  single 
breasted. 

Officer  and  enlisted  ranks  corresponded  generally  to  those  of  the 
United  States  Armed  Forces.  Army  officer  ranks  were  indicated 


221 


222 


223 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


by  gold  buttons  and  braiding  on  shoulder  boards;  piping  of  vari- 
ous colors  indicated  the  branch  of  service.  Army  enlisted  ranks  were 
indicated  by  yellow  chevrons.  Rank  insignia  for  officers  in  both 
the  navy  and  the  air  force  were  indicated  by  gold  bands  on  the 
sleeves  of  the  winter  uniform  and  by  similar  bands  on  the  shoul- 
der boards  of  the  summer  uniform.  Air  force  enlisted  ranks  were 
denoted  by  gray  chevrons  on  a  blue  background,  and  navy  enlist- 
ed ranks  were  indicated  by  yellow  chevrons  and  stars  on  a  red  back- 
ground (except  for  the  rank  equivalent  to  master  chief  petty  officer, 
which  was  designated  by  a  narrow  gold  band  and  loop  on  a  navy- 
blue  background)  (see  fig.  10;  fig.  11). 

Traditionally,  Uruguayan  governments  have  not  awarded  mili- 
tary decorations.  The  three  branches  of  the  armed  forces,  however, 
have  awarded  special  emblems  for  excellence  in  graduation  stand- 
ing at  the  service  academies  and  at  service  schools. 

Public  Order  and  Internal  Security 

Public  order  was  well  established  in  the  nation,  and  the  govern- 
ment committed  sufficient  resources  to  law  enforcement  to  main- 
tain domestic  order  throughout  the  country.  Urban  and  rural  areas 
were  generally  safe,  as  was  travel  throughout  the  nation.  Citizens 
were  able  to  conduct  day-to-day  affairs  in  peace  and  without  govern- 
ment interference.  The  constitution  guarantees  the  right  to  priva- 
cy and  due  process  and  freedom  of  the  press,  association,  assembly, 
and  religion.  After  the  return  to  civilian  rule  in  1985,  all  of  these 
rights  were  routinely  respected  by  the  government  and  by  law  en- 
forcement agencies. 

Several  groups  that  were  suppressed  or  banned  under  the  peri- 
od of  military  rule  had  since  emerged  as  active  participants  in  the 
national  political  life.  These  included  leftist  political  parties,  stu- 
dents, and  labor  organizations.  During  the  late  1980s,  each  of  these 
groups  participated  in  protests  or  demonstrations.  Such  actions  re- 
quired government  permits,  which  were  routinely  granted.  Demon- 
strations by  these  groups  were  generally  peaceful  and  free  from 
government  harassment. 

Disputes  between  political  parties  or  between  factions  of  the  same 
party  occasionally  flared  into  violence  during  the  late  1980s;  vio- 
lence was  usually  minor,  however,  taking  the  form  of  vandalism 
or  arson  against  party  offices.  In  general,  few  injuries  and  little 
damage  were  sustained.  In  1985  the  government  legalized  all  po- 
litical parties,  and  as  of  1990  there  were  no  known  political  prisoners 
or  any  banned  or  illegal  political  groups  in  the  nation. 

The  MLN-T,  also  known  as  the  Tupamaros,  was  a  former  ur- 
ban guerrilla  organization  given  amnesty  in  1985.  The  MLN-T 


224 


National  Security 


was  established  in  1962  by  Raul  Sendic  Antonaccio,  leader  of  a 
group  of  students,  peasants,  and  intellectuals  who  espoused  an  ex- 
treme nationalist  and  socialist  ideology.  Organized  according  to 
a  clandestine  cell-based  structure,  the  movement  conducted  a  guer- 
rilla campaign  from  1963  to  1973  that  included  bank  robberies, 
kidnappings,  sabotage,  and  jail  breaks.  The  army  effectively  de- 
stroyed the  Tupamaros  in  1972,  and  its  leaders  were  imprisoned 
for  long  terms  or  forced  into  exile  (see  The  Military  Government, 
1973-85,  ch.  1).  After  the  remaining  Tupamaro  prisoners  were 
freed  under  an  amnesty  decree  in  March  1985,  the  MLN-T  pub- 
licly renounced  armed  struggle  and  committed  itself  to  left-wing 
parliamentary  politics.  In  1990  the  Tupamaros  constituted  a  mar- 
ginal political  force  of  some  several  hundred  members  (see  Politi- 
cal Parties,  ch.  4).  The  group  published  a  newspaper  and  operated 
a  radio  station  in  Montevideo. 

Student  organizations,  repressed  during  the  military  regime, 
reestablished  themselves  in  1985  when  academic  freedom  and 
university  autonomy  were  restored.  Several  professors  who  had  been 
dismissed  for  ideological  reasons  were  allowed  to  return  to  their 
positions  as  well.  During  the  late  1980s,  students  held  several  pro- 
tests, none  of  which  had  a  serious  effect  on  public  order  (see  Polit- 
ical Forces  and  Interest  Groups,  ch.  4). 

Labor  unions  and  labor  activists  were  also  targets  of  repression 
under  the  military  regime.  During  the  late  1980s,  however,  labor 
activity  resumed,  and  several  labor  actions  and  strikes  took  place. 
Certain  of  these  activities  caused  localized  disruption  of  day-to-day 
activities,  but  most  grievances  were  solved  within  a  short  time,  and 
none  led  to  serious  violence.  In  1986,  during  a  strike  by  the  staff 
of  the  state-owned  National  Administration  of  Fuels,  Alcohol,  and 
Portland  Cement  (Administration  Nacional  de  Combustibles,  Al- 
cohol, y  Portland — ANCAP),  the  military  was  called  in  to  ensure 
distribution  of  fuel  but  did  not  act  in  a  law  enforcement  capacity 
(see  Labor,  ch.  3). 

Local  and  international  human  rights  groups  operated  freely  in 
the  nation  during  the  late  1980s,  and  these  groups  surfaced  no  credi- 
ble reports  of  killings  or  disappearances.  The  constitution  forbids 
brutal  treatment  of  prisoners,  and  there  were  few  accusations  of 
torture  of  prisoners  after  1985.  The  most  dramatic  exception  took 
place  in  mid- 1989,  when  the  death  of  a  bricklayer  while  in  police 
custody  led  to  charges  of  police  brutality  and  mistreatment. 
Although  the  police  maintained  the  man  hanged  himself  in  his 
cell,  controversy  over  the  case  led  to  the  resignation  of  the  minister 
of  interior  and  to  the  conviction  of  a  deputy  police  chief  for  mis- 
conduct. 


225 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Human  rights  groups  took  serious  exception  to  the  1986  law 
providing  amnesty  for  military  and  police  personnel  charged  with 
committing  human  rights  abuses  under  the  military  government. 
According  to  a  study  by  the  General  Assembly,  some  forty- six  mem- 
bers of  the  military  and  police  benefited  from  the  amnesty.  Hu- 
man rights  groups,  however,  claimed  that  the  real  number  was  well 
over  100.  Military  and  police  officers  charged  with  corruption  or 
with  financial  irregularities  were  not  covered  under  the  amnesty. 
In  1 988  a  former  army  general  and  a  former  minister  of  agricul- 
ture and  fishing  were  charged  with  making  illicit  financial  trans- 
actions during  the  period  of  military  rule. 

Crime 

Official  statistics  on  the  incidence  of  crime  during  the  1980s  were 
not  available  in  1990.  In  general,  however,  there  did  not  appear 
to  be  an  unusual  degree  of  ordinary  crime.  Judging  from  reports 
in  the  national  press,  the  level  of  crime  was  higher  in  urban  areas, 
particularly  in  Montevideo,  than  in  rural  areas. 

Smuggling  was  a  perennial  problem  for  law  enforcement  offi- 
cials, and  the  borders  with  Argentina  and  Brazil  were  periodically 
closed  during  the  late  1980s  in  an  effort  to  control  trafficking  in 
contraband.  In  1989  smuggling  surged  because  of  the  strength  of 
the  Uruguayan  new  peso  relative  to  Argentine  and  Brazilian  curren- 
cies. The  resulting  fall  in  government  tax  revenue  and  legal  domestic 
trade  prompted  the  government  to  seal  the  borders  once  again.  Resi- 
dents of  the  border  area  protested,  claiming  that  the  government 
should  differentiate  between  small-  and  large-scale  smuggling. 

During  the  late  1980s,  the  nation  experienced  problems  with  the 
sale  and  abuse  of  illegal  narcotics  and  with  drug  trafficking.  Stories 
in  the  domestic  press  covered  a  police  raid  on  a  cocaine  laboratory 
and  told  of  seizures  of  marijuana,  LSD  (lysergic  acid  diethylamide), 
and  cocaine.  In  an  effort  to  focus  more  resources  on  the  problem, 
the  government  in  July  1 988  announced  the  formation  of  the  Na- 
tional Council  for  the  Prevention  and  Repression  of  Illicit  Traffic 
and  Improper  Use  of  Drugs.  The  new  body  was  responsible  for 
coordinating  the  nation's  antidrug  campaign.  After  the  interna- 
tional press  reported  in  1 989  that  Uruguayan  gold  merchants  were 
involved  in  laundering  drug  money,  the  police  began  investigat- 
ing possible  domestic  links  to  international  drug-trafficking  organi- 
zations. 

The  National  Police 

The  National  Police  were  established  in  1829,  one  year  after  the 
country  gained  its  independence.  At  that  time,  each  department 


226 


/ 


GORAZON 


A  1984  election  campaign  poster  demanding  amnesty  for  Tupamaros 
Graffito  denouncing  Uruguay's  foreign  debt  and  the  International 
Monetary  Fund,  displayed  during  the  1984  election  campaign 

Courtesy  Charles  Guy  Gillespie 


227 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

was  assigned  a  police  chief,  similar  to  the  system  in  modern  use. 
As  of  1990,  police  forces  numbered  approximately  17,500,  a  ratio 
of  about  five  police  officers  to  each  1,000  inhabitants.  At  least  20 
percent  of  the  total  was  assigned  to  the  capital  area,  in  which  about 
one-half  of  the  country's  total  population  lived.  In  all,  about  40 
percent  of  the  police  force  was  assigned  to  urban  areas,  and  the 
remainder  were  assigned  to  rural  settlements. 

Article  168  of  the  constitution  gives  the  president,  acting  through 
the  minister  of  interior,  responsibility  for  the  preservation  of  pub- 
lic order.  Article  173  authorizes  him  to  appoint  a  chief  of  police 
for  each  of  the  departments,  whom  he  is  authorized  to  remove  at 
will. 

The  Ministry  of  Interior  had  the  responsibility  for  ensuring  public 
safety  throughout  the  nation,  except  for  coastal  areas  and  the  shores 
of  navigable  rivers  and  lakes,  which  were  the  responsibility  of 
the  National  Maritime  Police,  under  the  Uruguayan  Navy.  Police 
training  was  centralized  under  the  administration  of  the  min- 
istry, which  oversaw  the  operation  of  the  Police  Training  Academy. 
The  academy,  established  in  1936,  had  separate  schools  for  officers 
and  cadets  and  for  other  ranks.  The  course  for  noncommissioned 
officers  ran  for  one  year,  and  the  course  for  cadets  ran  for  two  years. 
The  academy  also  offered  in-service  and  specialty  courses  of  vary- 
ing lengths. 

Subordinate  to  the  Ministry  of  Interior,  the  National  Police  were 
organized  into  four  operating  agencies:  the  Montevideo  Police,  the 
Interior  Police,  the  National  Traffic  Police,  and  the  National  Corps 
of  Firemen.  Each  of  these  agencies  was  administratively  a  separate 
entity,  handling  most  personnel  administration,  including  recruit- 
ment, separately. 

The  Montevideo  Police  had  five  administrative  divisions:  inves- 
tigation, security,  support  services,  intelligence,  and  legal  affairs. 
Operationally,  they  were  divided  into  the  patrol  services,  canine 
corps,  security  and  traffic  bureau,  criminal  investigation  bureau, 
and  antismuggling  brigade.  The  criminal  investigation  bureau  was 
unique  in  that  it  conducted  operations  nationwide,  not  just  in  the 
capital  area.  The  Montevideo  Police  maintained  twenty-nine  police 
stations,  one  of  which  was  concerned  solely  with  urban  traffic.  The 
Montevideo  Police  also  worked  out  of  police  posts  in  small  towns 
and  villages  near  the  capital. 

The  Interior  Police  coordinated  the  activities  of  the  police  forces 
maintained  by  each  department.  The  National  Traffic  Police  con- 
trolled traffic  on  the  nation's  roadways.  The  National  Corps  of  Fire- 
men was  a  centralized  fire-prevention  and  fire-fighting  agency. 
Its  personnel  underwent  basic  training  with  police  personnel  but 


228 


Two  Uruguayan  marines  demonstrate  a  search  of  a 

vehicle  and  its  occupant. 
Courtesy  United  States  Department  of  Defense 

followed  up  with  specialized  training  and  career  assignments. 
Detachments  of  the  corps  were  assigned  to  police  forces  in  each 
department  and  in  the  city  of  Montevideo. 

Two  police  paramilitary  organizations  were  assigned  to  the  capital 
area.  The  first  was  the  Republican  Guard,  which  had  some  500 
personnel  as  of  1990.  This  unit  was  organized  into  cavalry  elements 
used  for  guard  duty,  parades,  and  ceremonial  occasions.  When 
necessary,  the  Republican  Guard  was  called  on  for  riot  duty  back- 
up for  the  regular  police.  The  Metropolitan  Guard  was  responsi- 
ble principally  for  guarding  municipal  property,  banks,  and 
embassies.  As  of  1990,  its  personnel  numbered  some  650.  The 
Metropolitan  Guard  was  conceived  of  as  a  paramilitary  force  and 
was  equipped  with  machine  guns  and  riot-control  gear.  The  unit 
was  also  charged  with  helping  the  police  control  disturbances  and 
acting  as  a  ready  reserve  for  emergencies  of  all  types. 

The  Criminal  Justice  System 

The  constitution  provides  that  judicial  power  be  vested  in  the 
Supreme  Court  of  Justice  (see  The  Judiciary,  ch.  4).  Immediately 
below  the  Supreme  Court  of  Justice  are  six  appellate  courts,  in- 
cluding the  appellate  court  on  criminal  matters.  Its  judgment  is 


229 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


by  unanimous  decision  of  the  three  justices.  The  next  courts  below 
the  appellate  courts  are  the  courts  of  first  instance,  or  lawyer  courts 
(juzgados  letrados),  the  principal  courts  of  first  instance  for  criminal 
felony  cases.  In  1990  Montevideo  had  ten  courts  of  first  instance 
to  hear  criminal  cases,  the  departments  of  Paysandu  and  Salto  had 
two  each,  and  each  of  the  other  departments  had  one.  The  lower 
justice  of  the  peace  courts  hear  minor  cases  and  have  original  juris- 
diction over  most  misdemeanors. 

The  nation's  judicial  system  is  based  on  the  Napoleonic  Code 
of  1804.  Once  a  suspect  is  identified,  the  constitution  requires  is- 
suance of  a  written  arrest  warrant  unless  the  suspect  was  caught 
during  the  commission  of  a  crime.  By  law  a  suspect  can  be  held 
incommunicado  for  twenty-four  hours,  after  which  he  or  she  must 
be  brought  before  a  judge  to  answer  charges.  Judges  then  have 
twenty-four  hours  to  decide  whether  to  release  or  to  charge  the  in- 
dividual. Once  charges  are  brought,  an  accused  has  the  right  to 
legal  counsel;  a  public  defender  is  appointed  to  represent  those  ac- 
cused who  cannot  afford  counsel.  If  the  accused  is  charged  with 
a  crime  carrying  a  penalty  of  at  least  two  years,  he  or  she  can  be 
confined  during  the  investigation  of  the  case.  Bond  is  allowed  in 
such  cases,  provided  the  individual  is  not  deemed  a  danger  to  so- 
ciety or  likely  to  flee. 

The  constitution  requires  that  all  trials  be  held  in  public  to  the 
extent  that  they  have  to  be  open  and  give  a  public  statement  of 
the  charge.  According  to  the  Code  of  Criminal  Procedure,  however, 
arguments  by  the  prosecution  and  the  defense  are  submitted  to  the 
judge  in  writing,  and  these  written  documents  are  not  usually  made 
public.  The  defense  attorney  has  the  right  to  review  all  written  docu- 
ments submitted  to  the  court.  The  constitution  does  not  provide 
protection  against  self-incrimination,  and  at  trial  an  accused  can 
be  required  to  answer  any  questions  from  the  judge.  Based  on  the 
written  statements  submitted,  the  judge  hands  down  his  or  her  de- 
cision (usually  without  seeing  the  accused  parties  in  person);  there 
is  no  provision  for  trial  by  jury. 

In  the  second  half  of  the  1980s,  several  jurists  and  human  rights 
groups  suggested  numerous  changes  to  the  judicial  procedure  to 
increase  efficiency  and  fairness.  Among  the  proposed  reforms  were 
the  institution  of  trial  by  jury  and  tightened  supervision  of  pretrial 
investigations,  but  as  of  1990  none  of  these  changes  had  been  made. 

The  principal  source  of  the  nation's  criminal  law  was  the  Penal 
Code  of  1889,  which  was  amended  in  1934  and  contained  three 
books.  The  first  book  concerned  general  principles  of  the  law  and 
the  definition  of  offenses,  which  were  divided  according  to  gravity 
into  felonies  and  misdemeanors.  The  first  book  also  defined  various 


230 


National  Security 


punishments,  which  comprised  incarceration  in  a  penitentiary  or 
prison,  exile,  deprivation  of  political  rights,  disqualification  or  sus- 
pension of  professional  qualifications,  and  fines.  It  also  discussed 
extenuating  circumstances  for  a  defendant,  such  as  age,  intoxica- 
tion, or  insanity.  The  second  book  concerned  felony  crimes,  in- 
cluding crimes  against  the  sovereignty  of  the  state,  the  political 
order,  public  order,  public  administration,  and  public  health.  The 
remaining  articles  in  the  second  book  dealt  with  crimes  against  per- 
sons and  property.  The  third  book  concerned  misdemeanor  offenses. 
In  June  1989,  the  Penal  Code  was  amended  to  provide  sanctions 
against  committing  or  inciting  hatred  or  other  forms  of  violence 
against  persons  based  on  race,  color,  religion,  or  national  or  eth- 
nic origin. 

In  addition  to  the  Penal  Code,  several  other  statutes  covered 
criminal  offenses.  Drug  legislation  was  covered  in  a  1974  law  that 
regulated  the  commercial  sale  and  use  of  controlled  substances  and 
penalized  drug  abuse  and  drug  trafficking.  Juvenile  offenders  were 
treated  under  a  1934  code  for  minors  that  established  a  juvenile 
court  in  Montevideo  with  jurisdiction  over  persons  under  the  age 
of  eighteen;  in  1990  there  were  four  such  courts  in  Montevideo. 

The  Ministry  of  Interior  supervised  the  federal  prisons  and 
departmental  jails.  All  nineteen  departments  maintained  jails  in 
which  accused  persons  were  temporarily  housed  pending  trial  and 
sentencing.  All  prisoners  sentenced  to  confinement  were  held  in 
one  of  three  federal  prisons  or  at  the  work  colony  at  San  Jose.  Two 
of  the  federal  prisons  were  for  men,  and  the  third  was  for  women. 
The  work  colony  was  designed  to  aid  in  the  rehabilitation  of 
prisoners  for  whom  agricultural  work  was  believed  to  be  helpful. 

Although  the  three  federal  prisons  existed  independendy  of  each 
other,  a  single  entity  in  the  ministry  administered  them.  A 
prerelease  facility  housed  prisoners  about  to  complete  their  term 
of  imprisonment.  These  individuals  could  bring  their  families  to 
live  with  them  until  their  final  discharge.  The  prisoners  themselves 
were  in  charge  of  the  facility  under  the  guidance  of  trained  instruc- 
tors. The  prison  area  was  surrounded  by  a  wide  moat.  The 
prerelease  facility  was  outside  the  moat.  Visits  to  minimum  secu- 
rity inmates  took  place  in  the  open;  medium  security  inmates  were 
separated  from  visitors  by  a  glass  partition;  and  those  in  maximum 
security  were  separated  by  reinforced  glass  partitions,  with  tele- 
phones for  communication. 

The  Penal  Code  provided  that  inmates  of  minimum  security  in- 
stitutions could  be  employed  in  such  activities  as  road  building, 
quarrying,  and  similar  public  improvement  projects.  The  obliga- 
tion to  work  was  established  by  law,  and  work  was  mandatory  for 


231 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

prisoners  who  had  not  been  tried.  Prisoners  earned  small  amounts 
for  their  labor;  these  sums  were  paid  upon  release.  Prison  labor 
was  aimed  at  rehabilitating  the  individual,  a  principle  no  doubt 
derived  from  the  country's  tradition  of  extensive  social  services. 

*    *  * 

As  of  late  1990,  no  definitive  studies  dealing  comprehensively 
with  national  security  matters  in  contemporary  Uruguay  had  been 
published.  A  general  treatment  of  modern  Uruguayan  political  life, 
touching  on  the  military  and  its  place  in  the  national  life,  can  be 
found  in  Martin  Weinstein's  Uruguay:  Democracy  at  the  Crossroads. 
The  most  complete  coverage  of  the  history  and  development  of  the 
armed  forces  is  contained  in  the  section  "Uruguay"  in  Adrian  J. 
English's  Regional  Defence  Profile,  No.  1 :  Latin  America.  For  develop- 
ment of  the  armed  forces  since  1980,  the  reader  must  search  through 
issues  of  the  Latin  American  Weekly  Report,  the  Latin  America  Report 
produced  by  the  Joint  Publications  Research  Service,  and  the  Daily 
Report:  Latin  America  put  out  by  the  Foreign  Broadcast  Informa- 
tion Service.  Current  order-of-battle  information  is  available  in  the 
International  Institute  of  Strategic  Studies'  excellent  annual,  The 
Military  Balance.  The  best  overview  of  conditions  of  public  order 
is  contained  in  the  sections  on  Uruguay  in  Country  Reports  on  Hu- 
man Rights  Practices,  a  report  submitted  annually  by  the  United  States 
Department  of  State  to  the  United  States  Congress.  (For  further 
information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


232 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Population  Size  and  Density  by  Department,  1985  Census 

3  Ranking  of  Departments  by  Level  of  Development,  1978 

4  Population,  Selected  Years,  1769-2020 

5  Income  Distribution  by  Area,  1986 

6  Decline  of  Real  Wages,  1968-82 

7  Evolution  of  Real  Wages,  1981-89 

8  Decline  of  Real  Minimum  Wage,  1981-89 

9  Key  Economic  Indicators,  1985-89 

10  Public-Sector  Finances,  1983-87 

11  Public-Sector  Expenditures,  Selected  Years,  1980-87 

12  Public-Sector  Revenues,  1980,  1984,  and  1986 

13  Agricultural  and  Fisheries  Production,  1983-88 

14  Selected  Autonomous  Entities,  1990 

15  Manufacturing  Production  and  Employment  by  Sector,  1987 

16  Balance  of  Payments,  1984-88 

17  Principal  Political  Parties,  Factions,  and  Candidates,  Elections 

of  November  26,  1989 

18  Principal  Newspapers,  1990 

19  Major  Army  Equipment,  1990 

20  Major  Navy  Equipment,  1990 

21  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1990 


233 


Appendix 


1  CL0L6  1 . 

Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

When  you  know 

Multiply  by 

To  find 

  0.04 

inches 

  0.39 

inches 

  3.3 

feet 

miles 

Hectares  (1U,UUU  nr)  . 

  2.47 

acres 

  0.39 

square  miles 

cubic  feet 

gallons 

  2.2 

pounds 

  0.98 

long  tons 

  1.1 

short  tons 

  2,204 

pounds 

  9 

degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade) 

divide  by  5 

and  add  32 

Table  2.  Population  Size  and  Density  by 
Department,  1985  Census 


Department  Population  Density  * 


Artigas    69,145  5.8 

Canelones    364,248  80.3 

Cerro  Largo   78,416  5.7 

Colonia    112,717  18.5 

Durazno   55,077  4.7 

Flores   24,739  4.8 

Florida    66,474  6.4 

Lavalleja    61,466  6.1 

Maldonado   94,314  19.7 

Montevideo    1,311,976  2,475.4 

Paysandu    103,763  7.5 

Rio  Negro    48,644  5.2 

Rivera    89,475  9.5 

Rocha    66,601  6.3 

Salto   108,487  7.7 

San  Jose   89,893  18.0 

Soriano    79,439  8.8 

Tacuarembo   83,498  5.4 

Treinta  y  Tres    46,869  4.9 

URUGUAY   2,955,241  16.9 


*  Persons  per  square  kilometer. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Uruguay,  Direccion  General  de  Estadfstica  y  Censos, 
Anuario  estadistico,  1988,  Montevideo,  1989. 


235 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Table  3.  Ranking  of  Departments  by  Level 
of  Development,  1978 


Index  of  Social  and 

Rank  Department  Economic  Development 


1   Montevideo  97.7 

2  Maldonado  66.1 

3  Colonia  37.6 

4  Paysandu  34.0 

5  Lavalleja  30.1 

6  Soriano  24.9 

7  Flores  24.1 

8  Salto  22.6 

9  Canelones  22.1 

10  Rocha  19.2 

11   Florida  18.6 

12  Durazno  17.9 

13  Rio  Negro  16.4 

14  San  Jose  15.7 

15  Treinta  y  Tres  14.6 

16  Artigas  12.2 

17  Cerro  Largo  10.9 

18  Tacuarembo  10.2 

19  Rivera  5.7 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Danilo  Veiga,  "Tipologia  departmental  y  desarrollo 
regional  en  el  Uruguay,"  Montevideo,  1978,  43. 


Table  4.  Population,  Selected  Years,  1769-2020  * 

Year                                       Population                 Year  Population 

1769                                     12,000              1941    2,186,000 

1796                                     46,000              1950    2,193,000 

1829                                     74,000              1963    2,596,000 

1835                                    128,000              1975    2,788,000 

1852                                   132,000              1980    2,908,000 

1860                                    223,000              1985    2,955,000 

1872                                    420,000              1988    3,081,000 

1889                                    712,000              1995    3,152,000 

1908                                 1,043,000              2000    3,264,000 

1916                                  1,294,000              2020    3,679,000 

1930    1,699,000 

•  Figures  for  1852,  1860,  1908,  1963,  1975,  and  1985  are  census  results;  figures  for  other  years  to  1988 
are  estimates;  figures  for  1995,  2000,  and  2020  are  projections.  All  figures  are  rounded  off  to  the 
nearest  thousand. 


236 


Appendix 


Table  5.  Income  Distribution  by  Area,  1986 


Percentage  Share  of  Household  Income 
Lowest  Highest  Highest 

Area  20  Percent  20  Percent  10  Percent 


Montevideo   5.5  47.3  29.9 

Department  capitals    6.2  45.9  29.1 

Rest  of  interior    5.7  46.4  29.8 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Pablo  Martinez  Bengochea  and  Alicia  Mel  gar,  "Evolu- 
tion de  precios  e  ingresos,  1985-1986,"  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH  [Montevideo],  11, 
No.  39,  1986,  88. 


Table  6.  Decline  of  Real  Wages,  1968-82 
(1968=  100) 


Private  Public 


Year  Sector  Sector  Uruguay 


1968    100  100  100 

1969    Ill  112  111 

1970    Ill  109  110 

1971    116  115  116 

1972    98  94  96 

1973    96  93  94 

1974    96  91  93 

1975    88  82  85 

1976   81  79  80 

1977    71  71  71 

1978    68  68  68 

1979    62  64  63 

1980    58  67  62 

1981    62  72  67 

1982    62  72  67 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Martin  Weinstein,  Uruguay:  Democracy  at  the  Crossroads, 
Boulder,  Colorado,  1988,  69. 

Table  7.  Evolution  of  Real  Wages,  1981-89 
(fourth  quarter  1984=  100) 

Private  Public 


Year  Sector  Sector  Uruguay 


1981    131  149  140 

1982    130  149  140 

1983    104  117  111 

1984    99  102  100 

1985    114  116  115 

1986    123  122  122 

1987    133  122  128 

1988    136  123  130 

1989    138  119  130 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Busqueda  [Montevideo],  No.  540,  June  14-20,  1990,  29. 


237 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Table  8.  Decline  of  Real  Minimum  Wage,  1981-89 

Year  Index  * 

1981   97 

1982    99 

1983    85 

1984    85 

1985    89 

1986    84 

1987    86 

1988    80 

1989    74 

*  March  1973  =  100. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Busqueda  [Montevideo],  No.  539,  June  7-13,  1990,  27. 


Table  9.  Key  Economic  Indicators,  1985-89 


1985 

1986 

1987 

1988 

1989  1 

Gross  domestic  product  (GDP)  2  ... 

.  .  .  .  5,204 

6,382 

7,734 

7,944 

8,800 

Real  GDP  growth  3   

.  .  .  .  0.3 

6.6 

4.9 

0.5 

1.5 

1.3 

1.3 

1.3 

1.3 

1.3 

  13 

11 

9 

9 

9 

72 

71 

57 

69 

85 

.  . .  .  101 

152 

227 

359 

606 

.  ,  ,  .  4,900 

5,238 

5,888 

6,330 

6,700 

1  Preliminary. 

2  In  millions  of  United  States  dollars. 

3  In  percentages;  real  GDP  growth  takes  inflation  into  account. 

4  In  millions. 

5  In  percentages. 

6  In  Uruguayan  new  pesos  (for  value  of  the  Uruguayan  new  peso — see  Glossary)  to  United  States  dollars. 


238 


Appendix 


Table  10.  Public-Sector  Finances,  1983-87 
(in  millions  of  Uruguayan  new  pesos)  * 


1983 

1984 

1985 

1986 

1987 

Revenues 

Taxes 

Income   ■ 

3,339 

3,599 

8,616 

18,086 

30,706 

Prnnprtv 

1  951 

1  854 

4  414 

9  829 

19  218 

(~Xc\c\c\ c  anH  ?prvirp<i 

15  718 

24  037 

48  750 

95  781 

163  145 

3  851 

6  129 

8  936 

15  937 

32  927 

Payroll 

222 

241 

784 

1  368 

2  21Q 

Total  taypc 

25  081 

3^  860 

71  500 

141  001 

248  215 

4  204 

3  937 

5  197 

8  850 

22  724 

.  .  29,285 

39,797 

76,697 

149,851 

270,939 

Expenditures 

.  .  4,777 

6,675 

12,001 

23,724 

41,590 

,  .  .  5,345 

7,238 

11,415 

19,049 

29,538 

. .  3,108 

4,090 

7,689 

16,261 

32,037 

, . .  2,001 

2,384 

4,824 

10,782 

18,132 

. .  13,992 

17,485 

28,735 

44,530 

83,399 

Other   

,  . .  7,632 

17,601 

26,761 

46,824 

88,292 

Total  expenditures  .  .  . 

.  .  36,855 

55,473 

91,425 

161,170 

292,988 

Deficit   

.  .  7,570 

15,676 

14,728 

11,319 

22,049 

*  For  value  of  the  Uruguayan  new  peso — see  Glossary. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Uruguay,  Direction  General  de  Estadfstica  y  Censos, 
Anuario  estadistico,  1988,  Montevideo,  1989. 


Table  11.  Public-Sector  Expenditures, 
Selected  Years,  1980-87 
(in  percentages) 


Expenditures 

1980 

1984 

1986 

1987 

,  .  9.6 

5.7 

6.3 

10.6 

.  .  5.3 

12.2 

6.7 

8.0 

Financial  investment  and  net  lending  .  , 

,  .  2.5 

3.1 

2.6 

n.a. 

,  .  2.2 

9.5 

10.4 

8.9 

.  .  80.4 

69.5 

74.0 

72.5 

TOTAL   

.  100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Inter- American  Development  Bank,  Economic  and  Social 
Progress  in  Latin  America,  Washington,  1989,  481-84. 


239 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Table  12.  Public-Sector  Revenues,  1980,  1984,  and  1986 
(in  percentages) 


Revenues 

1980 

1984 

1  you 

Taxes 

  14.9 

9.4 

15.3 

  4.9 

4.5 

5.8 

  58.4 

58.2 

59.9 

  12.8 

17.4 

16.4 

  91.0 

89.5 

97.4 

  9.0 

10.5 

2.6 

TOTAL   

  100.0 

100.0 

100.0 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Inter- American  Development  Bank,  Economic  and  Social 
Progress  in  Latin  America,  Washington,  1989,  477-80. 


Table  13.  Agricultural  and  Fisheries  Production,  1983-88 
(in  thousands  of  tons) 

Product  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988 
Livestock  products 

Beef  and  veal                                   431  302  323  330  255  301 

Mutton  and  lamb                                60  41  44  83  54  n.a. 

Milk                                             571  521  595  640  635  n.a. 

Wool   82  _82  71  87  90  89 

Total  livestock  products               1,144  946  1,033  1,140  1,034  390 

Crops 

Rice                                             323  339  421  394  335  381 

Wheat                                           363  419  349  246  232  414 

Corn                                              104  112  108  103  104  118 

Barley                                              45  80  113  80  62  124 

Soybeans   12  _U_   21   35   63  n.a. 

Total  crops                                   847  961  1,012  858  796  931 

Fisheries 

Argentine  hake                                   80  65  97  86  84  n.a. 

Atlantic  croaker                                  25  24  19  24  28  n.a. 

Striped  weakfish                                   9  11  7  13  11  n.a. 

Other    30  _34   15   18  _15  n.a. 

Total  fisheries                               144  134  138  141  138  n.a. 

n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Uruguay,  Direction  General  de  Estadfstica  y  Censos, 

Anuario  esladistico,  1988,  Montevideo,  1989. 


240 


Appendix 


Table  14.  Selected  Autonomous  Entities,  1990 


Acronym  Organization 


AFE  Administracion  de  los  Ferrocarriles  del  Estado 

(State  Railways  Administration) 

ANCAP  Administracion  Nacional  de  Combustibles,  Alcohol,  y 

Portland 

(National  Administration  of  Fuels,  Alcohol,  and  Portland 
Cement) 

ANDEBU   Asociaci6n  Nacional  de  Broadcasters  Uruguayos 

(National  Association  of  Uruguayan  Broadcasters) 

ANEP   Asociacion  Nacional  de  Empleados  Publicos 

(National  Association  of  Public  Employees) 

ANP   Administracion  Nacional  de  Puertos 

(National  Administration  of  Ports) 

ANTEL   Administracion  Nacional  de  Telecomunicaciones 

(National  Telecommunications  Administration) 

BPS   Banco  de  Prevision  Social 

(Social  Welfare  Bank) 

BROU  Banco  de  la  Republica  Oriental  del  Uruguay 

(Bank  of  Uruguay) 

COCAP  Consejo  de  Capacitacion  Profesional 

(Professional  Training  Council) 

CONADI  Comisi6n  Nacional  de  Informatica 

(National  Informatics  Commission) 

INC   Institute  Nacional  de  Colonizacion 

(National  Land  Setdement  Institute) 

OSE  Administraci6n  de  Obras  Sanitarias  del  Estado 

(State  Sanitary  Works  Administration) 

PLUNA  Primeras  Lmeas  Uruguayas  de  Navegaci6n  Aerea 

(Uruguayan  National  Airlines) 

SODRE  Servicio  Oficial  de  Difusion  Radiotelevision  y  Espectaculos 

(Official  Radio  and  Television  Service) 

TAMU   Transportes  Aereos  Militares  Uruguayos 

(Uruguayan  Military  Air  Transport) 

UTE   Administracion  Nacional  de  Usinas  y  Transmisiones  Electricas 

(National  Administration  for  the  Generation  and  Transmis- 
sion of  Electricity) 


241 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Table  15.  Manufacturing  Production  and 
Employment  by  Sector,  1987 


Sector  Value1  Employment2 


41 

Textiles  apparel  and  footwear   

  891 

37 

  493 

2 

  400 

9 

Transportation  goods   

  259 

3 

  158 

7 

  150 

4 

  139 

5 

Tobacco  products  

  105 

1 

  97 

3 

  81 

4 

Other   

  281 

16 

TOTAL   

  4,350 

132 

1  In  millions  of  United  States  dollars. 

2  In  thousands. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Uruguay,  Direccion  General  de  Estadfstica  y  Censos, 
Anuario  estadistico,  1988,  Montevideo,  1989. 


Table  16.  Balance  of  Payments,  1984-88 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1984       1985         1986  1987  1988 


Current  account 

Merchandise  exports                                925  854  1,088  1,182  1,404 

Merchandise  imports   ^732  ^675  -814  -1,080  -1,112 

Trade  balance                                      193  179  274  102  292 

Net  other  goods  and  services   -332  -309  -231  -242  -280 

Net  transfers    10   11   25   8   21 

Current  account  balance  -129  -119  68  -132  33 

Capital  account 

Direct  investment                                       3  -8  -5  5  -2 

Portfolio  investment                                   19  97  86  13  37 

Other  long-term  capital                               20  -29  55  22  -100 

Other  short-term  capital  _124  -134  -156   199  204 

Capital  account  balance                      166  -74  -20  239  139 

Net  errors  and  omissions  -121  259  240  -68  -209 

Counterpart  items                                         22  -23  -38  -49  19 

Exceptional  financing                                      0  0  0  40  40 

Other  liabilities                                           -1  0  0  4  15 

Change  in  reserves                                        63  -43  -250  -34  -37 

(-  means  increase) 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  International  Monetary  Fund,  International  Financial  Statis- 
tics, Washington,  1990,  552. 


242 


Appendix 


Table  17.  Principal  Political  Parties,  Factions,  and 
Candidates,  Elections  of  November  26,  1989 


Party 


Faction 


Candidate 


Colorado  Party 
(Partido  Colorado) 


United  Badlism  (Badlismo 
Unido— BU)  (right-of-center) 

Colorado  and  Batllist  Union 
(Union  Colorada  y  Batllista — 
UCB)  (right-of-center) 


Senator  Jorge 
Batlle  Ibaftez 

Jorge  Pacheco  Areco 


Social  Action  Movement 
(Movimiento  de  Accion 
Social — MAS)  (left-of-center) 


Hugo  Fernandez 
Faingold 


National  Party 

(Partido  Nacional) 


Herrerist  Movement 

(Movimiento  Herrerista)  (right- 
of-center) 


Senator  Luis  Alberto 
Lacalle  de  Herrera 


La  Rocha  National  Movement 
(Movimiento  Nacional  de  La 
Rocha— MNR)  (left-of-center) 


Senator  Carlos  Julio 
Pereyra 


For  the  Fatherland  (Por  la 
Patria— PLP)  (centrist) 


Senator  Alberto  Saenz 
de  Zumaran 


Broad  Front 

(Frente  Amplio) 


Left-of-center  coalition  of 

communist  and  socialist  parties, 
Tupamaros,  and  eleven  other 
small  parties 


General  (Retired)  Liber 
Seregni  Mosquera 


New  Sector 

(Nuevo  Espacio) 


Integration  Movement 
(Movimiento  de  Integracion — 
MI)  coalition  (left-of-center)  * 


Senator  Hugo  Batalla 


Coalition  consisted  of  Christian  Democratic  Party  (Partido  Democrata  Cristiano — PDC),  Civic  Union 
(Union  Cfvica — UC),  and  People's  Government  Party  (Partido  por  el  Gobierno  del  Pueblo — PGP). 


243 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Table  18.  Principal  Newspapers,  1990 


Circulation  Date 

Newspaper                             and  Frequency                         Affiliation  Established 

ElDta                           100,000,  daily;  Colorado  1886 

150,000,  Sunday 

El  Diario                       80,000,  evening  Independent  Colorado  1923 

Diario  Oficial  Morning  Official  gazette  n.a. 

Gaceta  Comercial              4,500,  morning  Independent  leftist  1916 

weekly 

La  Hora   Morning  Broad  Front  1984 

La  Mariana                      40,000,  morning  Independent  Colorado  1917 

Mundocolor                      4,500,  evening  n.a.  1976 

La  Opinion   Weekly  UCB  1  1985 

El  Pais                          130,000  Conservative  Blanco  1918 

La  Razon   Weekly  MNR  2  1987 

Ultimas  Noticias               19,000,  evening  Moon  Unification  Church  1981 

n.a. — not  available. 


1  Union  Colorada  y  Batllista  (Colorado  and  Battlist  Union). 

2  Movimiento  Nacional  de  La  Rocha  (La  Rocha  National  Movement). 


244 


Appendix 


Table  19.  Major  Army  Equipment,  1990 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of  Origin 


In  Inventory 


Tanks 

M-24  Chaffee  light  tanks    United  States 

M-41A1  Bulldog  light  tanks    Belgium  (United 

States-made) 

Scorpion  light  tanks   Belgium 

Armored  vehicles 

M-3A1  White  armored  cars    United  States 

FN-4-RM-62  armored  cars    Belgium 

Ml  13  armored  personnel  carriers    United  States 

Condor  armored  personnel  carriers    West  Germany 

EE-3  Jararaca  armored  reconnaissance 

vehicles   Brazil 

EE-9  Cascavel  armored  reconnaissance 

vehicles   -do- 
Artillery 

FAL  7.62mm  assault  rifles   Argentina 

Bofors  M-1902  75mm,  towed    Argentina 

(Swedish-made) 

M-101A1  105mm  howitzers    South  Korea  (United 

States-made) 

M-114A1  155mm,  towed    -do- 

M-l  81mm  mortars   United  States 

107mm  mortars    -do- 

M-18  57mm  recoilless  rifles   -do- 

M-40A1  106mm  recoilless  rifles    -do- 
Antitank  weapons 

Milan  106mm  antitank  guns    -do- 


17 

22 

15  (more 
on  order) 


28 
22 
15 
50 

18 

15 


25 
5 

40 
5 

30 

10 


10 


Air  defense  weapons 

M-167  Vulcan  20mm  air  defense  guns  .  .  .  South  Korea  (United 

States-made) 

Bofors  L/60  40mm  air  defense  guns    Sweden 


n.a. — not  available. 


245 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Table  20.  Major  Navy  Equipment,  1990 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of  Origin 


In  Inventory 


Escorts 

Commandant  Riviere-class  frigate    France 

Dealey-class  frigate    United  States 

Cannon-class  destroyer  escort  1    -do- 

Auk-class  corvette    -do- 
Patrol  craft 

Vigilante-class  large  patrol  craft   France 

Salto-class  large  patrol  craft   Italy 

Large  patrol  craft   United  States 

Small  patrol  craft   n.a. 

Miscellaneous 

Adjutant-class  minesweeper    United  States 

LCM  6  landing  craft    -do- 

LD-43-class  landing  craft    Uruguay 

Tanker 2    Japan 

Training  ship   Spain 

Cohoe-class  salvage  vessel    United  States 

Transport  vessel  2    Denmark 

Naval  aircraft 

Grumman  SA  2A/G  Trackers    United  States 

Beech  Super  King  Air  200T    -do- 

T-28  Frennecs  armed  trainers    Argentina 

Beech  T-34  B/C    United  States 

Beech  TC-45   -do- 
Bell  47  helicopter   -do- 
Bell  222  helicopter    -do- 

CASA  C-2 12-200  Aviocar    Spain 

Sikorsky  SH-34  helicopters    United  States 

Piper  PA- 18  Super  Cub  trainers    -do- 

SN-7  trainers    -do- 

n.a. — not  available. 

1  To  be  replaced  by  Commandant  Riviere-class  frigates  on  order. 

2  Under  civilian  charter. 


1 

(2  on  order) 
1 
1 
1 


246 


Appendix 


Table  21.  Major  Air  Force  Equipment,  1990 


Type  and  Description 


Country  of  Origin 


In  Inventory 


Training 

North  American  AT-6A  Texan   United  States 

Beech  T-34A/B  Mentor  and  T-6    -do- 
Cessna  T-41D  Mescalero    -do- 
Light  attack 

FMA  IA-58B  Pucaras    Argentina 

Cessna  A-37B  Dragonflies   United  States 

Lockheed  AT-33  Shooting  Stars    -do- 
Liaison 

Cessna  U-17A  Skywagon    -do- 
Cessna  182    -do- 
Cessna  310    -do- 
Piper  PA- 18  Super  Cub    -do- 
Piper  PA-23    -do- 
Beech  Queen  Air  80    -do- 
Transports 

CASA  C-212  Aviocar    Spain 

Embraer  EMB-110    Brazil 

Fokker  F-27    Netherlands 

Fairchild-Hiller  FH-227    United  States 

Douglas  C-47    -do- 
Survey 

Embraer  EMB- 11  OBI    Brazil 

Commander  680    United  States 

Helicopters 

Bell  212    -do- 
Bell  UH-1B   -do- 
Bell  UH-1H    -do- 

HillerUH-23F    -do- 


7 
24 
6 


247 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Acevedo,  Eduardo.  Anales  historicos  del  Uruguay,  1.  Montevideo:  Bar- 
reiro  y  Ramos,  1933. 

 Anales  historicos  del  Uruguay,  2.  Montevideo:  Barreiro  y  Ra- 
mos, 1933. 

 Anales  historicos  del  Uruguay,  4.  Montevideo:  Barreiro  y  Ra- 
mos, 1934. 

 Anales  historicos  del  Uruguay,  6.  Montevideo:  Barreiro  y  Ra- 
mos, 1936. 

Alisky,  Marvin.  Uruguay:  A  Contemporary  Survey.  New  York:  Prae- 
ger,  1962. 

Alonso  Eloy,  Rosa,  and  Carlos  Demassi.  Uruguay,  1958-1968:  Crisis 
y  estancamiento.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental, 
1986. 

Amnesty  International.  Political  Imprisonment  in  Uruguay.  London: 
1979. 

 Tortured  to  Death  in  Uruguay:  22  Known  Cases.  London:  1976. 

 Uruguay  Deaths  under  Torture,  1975-77.  London:  1978. 

Artigas.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  "El  Pais,"  1960. 

Astori,  Danilo.  El  Uruguay  de  la  dictadura,  1973-1985:  La  politica 

economica  de  la  dictadura.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda 

Oriental,  1989. 

Bandera,  Manuel  M.  de  la.  La  constitucion  de  1967.  Montevideo: 
Secretana  del  Senado,  1967. 

Baracchini,  Hugo.  Historia  de  las  comunicaciones  en  el  Uruguay.  Mon- 
tevideo: Universidad  de  la  Republica,  1977. 

Barbagelata,  Anibal  Luis.  El  constitucionalismo  Uruguay o  a  mediados 
del  siglo  XIX.  Montevideo:  Fundacion  de  Cultura  Universita- 
ria,  1978. 

Barran,  Jose  Pedro.  Apogeoy  crisis  del  Uruguay  pastorily  caudillesco, 
1838-1875.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1974. 

Barran,  Jose  Pedro,  and  Benjamin  Nahum.  Bases  economicas  de  la 
revolucion  artiguista.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Orien- 
tal, 1964. 

 Batlle:  Los  estancierosy  el  imperio  britdnico.  Montevideo:  Edi- 
ciones de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1983. 

 Historia  rural  del  Uruguay  moderno.  (7  vols.)  Montevideo:  Edi- 
ciones de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1967-78. 


249 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Barrios  Pintos,  Ambal.  Historia  de  la  ganaderia  en  el  Uruguay, 
1574-1971.  Montevideo:  Biblioteca  Nacional,  1978. 

Blanco  Acevedo,  Pablo.  El federalismo  de  Artigasy  la  independencia  na- 
cional. Montevideo:  1950. 

 El  gobierno  colonial  en  el  Uruguay  y  los  origenes  de  la  nacionalidad. 

Montevideo:  Barreiro  y  Ramos,  1944. 

Bralich,  Jorge.  Breve  historia  de  la  educacidn  en  el  Uruguay.  Montevideo: 
CLEP/Ediciones  de  Nuevo  Mundo,  1987. 

Bruschera,  Oscar.  Las  decadas  infames,  1967-1985.  (Hoy  es  Histo- 
ria series.)  Montevideo:  Libreria  Linardi  y  Risso,  1986. 

Caetano,  Gerardo.  La  agonia  del  reformismo,  1916-1925.  (Serie  de 
Investigaciones,  Nos.  37-38.)  Montevideo:  Centro  Latino- 
americano  de  Economfa  Humana,  1983. 

Caetano,  Gerardo,  and  Raul  Jacob.  El  nacimiento  del  terrismo 
(1930-33),  1.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1989. 

Caetano,  Gerardo,  and  Jose  Pedro  Rilla.  Breve  historia  de  la  dictadura, 
1973-1985.  Montevideo:  Centro  Latinoamericano  de  Economia 
Humana/Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1987. 

 El  Uruguay  de  la  dictadura,  1973-1985:  La  era  militar.  Mon- 
tevideo: Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1989. 

Calatayud  Bosch,  Jose.  Grandeza  y  decadencia  del  Partido  Nacional. 
Montevideo:  Ediciones  Liga  Federal,  1971. 

Cardozo,  Efraim.  El  imperio  del  Brasil  y  el  Rio  de  la  Plata.  Buenos 
Aires:  1961. 

Castellanos,  Alfredo  Raul.  La  Cisplatina,  la  independencia,  y  la  repu- 
blica  caudillesca,  1820-1838.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda 
Oriental,  1977. 

Contribucidn  a  la  historia  econdmica  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  Acade- 
mia  Nacional  de  Economia,  1984. 

D'Elia,  German.  El  movimiento  sindical.  Montevideo:  Coleccion 
"Nuestra  Tierra,"  1969. 

 El  Uruguay  neo-Batllista,  1946-1958.  Montevideo:  Ediciones 

de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1982. 

Fabregat,  Julio  T.  Elecciones  uruguayas.  Montevideo:  Camara  de 
Senadores,  1972. 

Faraone,  Roque.  De  la  prosperidad  a  la  ruina.  Montevideo:  Edito- 
rial Area,  1987. 

 .  El  Uruguay  en  que  vivimos,  1900-1965.  Montevideo:  Edito- 
rial Area,  1965. 

Faroppa,  Luis.  Politicas  para  una  economia  desequilibrada:  Uruguay, 
1958-1981.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1982. 

Faroppa,  Luis,  Marisa  Buchelli,  Alberto  Couriel,  and  Alberto  Ben- 
sion.  Cuatro  tesis  sobre  la  situacidn  econdmica  nacional.  Montevideo: 


250 


Bibliography 


Fundacion  de  Cultura  Universitaria/Colegio  de  Economistas  y  Con- 
tadores  del  Uruguay,  1973. 

Finch,  M.HJ.  Historia  economica  del  Uruguay  contempordneo.  Mon- 
tevideo: Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1980. 

 A  Political  Economy  of  Uruguay  since  1870.  New  York:  St. 

Martin's  Press,  1981. 

Fitzgibbon,  Russell  H.  Uruguay:  Portrait  of  a  Democracy.  New  York: 
Russell  and  Russell,  1966. 

Frega,  Ana,  Monica  Maronna,  and  Yvette  Trochon.  Baldomir y 
la  restauracion  democrdtica,  1938-1946.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de 
la  Banda  Oriental,  1987. 

Gallinal,  Gustavo.  El  Uruguay  fiacia  la  dictatura.  Montevideo:  Edito- 
rial Nueva  America,  1938. 

Gillespie,  Charles  Guy,  Louis  Goodman,  Juan  Rial,  and  Peter 
Winn.  Uruguay  y  la  democracia.  (3  vols.)  (Wilson  Center  Latin 
American  Program-Montevideo  Series.)  Montevideo:  Ediciones 
de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1984-85. 

Gonzalez,  Luis  E.,  and  Jorge  Notaro.  Alcances  de  una  politica  es- 
tabilizadora  heterodoxa:  El  caso  uruguayo,  1974  a  1979.  Montevideo: 
Wilson  Center- Seminar  on  Stabilization  Policies  in  Latin  Ameri- 
ca, 1979. 

Gonzalez  Sierra,  Yamandu.  Resena  historica  del  movimiento  sindical 
uruguayo,  1870-1984.  Montevideo:  Centro  Interdisciplinario  de 
Estudios  del  Desarrollo,  Uruguay,  1989. 

Herrera,  Luis  Alberto  de.  La  mision  Ponsonby.  Montevideo:  Camara 
de  Representantes,  1988. 

Isola,  Ema.  La  esclavitud  en  el  Uruguay  desde  sus  comienzos  hasta  su  ex- 
tincion,  1743-1852.  Montevideo:  Comision  Nacional  de  Homenaje 
del  Sesquicentenario  de  los  Hechos  Historicos  de  1825,  1975. 

Jacob,  Raul.  Benito  Nardone:  El  ruralismo  hacia  el poder,  1945-1958. 
Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1981. 

 Breve  historia  de  la  industria  en  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  Fun- 
dacion de  Cultura  Universitaria,  1981. 

 El frigorifico  nacional  en  el  mercado  de  carnes.  Montevideo:  Fun- 
dacion de  Cultura  Universitaria,  1979. 

 Modelo  Batllista:  £  Variation  sobre  un  viejo  tema?  Montevideo: 

Editorial  Proyeccion,  1988. 

 Uruguay,  1929-1938:  Depresion  ganadera  y  desarrollo  fabril. 

Montevideo:  Fundacion  de  Cultura  Universitaria,  1981. 

 El  Uruguay  de  Terra,  1931-1938.  Montevideo:  Ediciones 

de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1983. 

Lerin,  Francois  and  Cristina  Torres.  Historia  politica  de  la  dictadura 
uruguaya,  1973-1980.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  del  Nuevo  Mun- 
do,  1987. 


251 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Lindahl,  Goran  G.  Batlle:  Fundador  de  la  democracia  en  el  Uruguay. 
Montevideo:  Editorial  Area,  1971. 

Lista  Clericetti,  Julio.  Historia  politica  Uruguay a,  1938-1972.  Mon- 
tevideo: J.  Lista  Clericetti,  1984. 

Lopez  Chirico,  Selva.  El  estado  y  las  fuerzas  armadas  en  el  Uruguay 
del  siglo  XX.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1985. 

Macadar,  Luis.  Uruguay,  1974-1980:  (Un  nuevo  ensayo  de  reajuste 
economico?  Montevideo:  Centro  de  Investigaciones  Economi- 
cas/Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1982. 

Machado,  Carlos.  Historia  politica  uruguaya,  1938-1972.  Montevideo: 
Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1972. 

Machado  Ferrer,  Martha,  and  Carlos  Fagundez  Ramos.  Los  anos 
duros:  Cronologia  documentada,  1964-1973.  Montevideo:  Monte- 
Sexto,  1987. 

Manini  Rios,  Carlos.  Anoche  me  llamo  Batlle.  Montevideo:  Impren- 
ta  Letras:  1970. 

Mel  gar,  Walter,  and  Walter  Cancela  Vilanova.  El  Uruguay  de  nuestro 
tiempo,  1958-1983 — Economia:  La  hora  del  balance.  Montevideo: 
Centro  Latinoamericano  de  Economia  Humana,  1983. 

Mendez  Vives,  Enrique.  El  Uruguay  de  la  modernization,  1876-1904. 
Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1975. 

Montero  Bustamante,  Raul,  and  Julio  M.  Llamas.  Fundacion  de 
Montevideo.  (Instituto  Historico  y  Geografico  del  Uruguay  se- 
ries.) Montevideo:  Editorial  Area,  1976. 

Mourat,  Oscar.  5  perspectivas  historicas  del  Uruguay  moderno.  Mon- 
tevideo: Fundacion  de  Cultura  Universitaria,  1969. 

Nahum,  Benjamin.  Crisis  politica  y  recuperacion  econdmica,  1930-1958. 
Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1987. 

Oddone,  Juan  Antonio.  Uruguay  en  los  anos  treinta.  Montevideo: 
Universidad  de  la  Republica,  1988. 

Oddone,  Juan  Antonio,  and  Blanca  Paris.  La  universidad  uruguaya 
del  militarismo  a  la  crisis,  1885-1958.  (3  vols.)  Montevideo:  Univer- 
sidad de  la  Republica,  1971. 

Perez  Santarcieri,  Maria  Emilia.  Partidos  politicos  en  el  Uruguay:  Sinte- 
sis  historica  de  su  origeny  evolucion.  Montevideo:  Imprenta  Valgraf, 
1989. 

Pivel  Devoto,  Juan  E.  Historia  de  los  partidos  y  de  las  ideas  politicas 
en  el  Uruguay  II:  La  definicion  de  los  bandos,  1829-1838.  Montevideo: 
Editorial  Medina,  1956. 

Pivel  Devoto,  Juan  E.,  and  Alcira  Ranieri  de  Pivel  Devoto.  Historia 
de  la  Republica  Oriental  del  Uruguay,  1830-1930.  Montevideo: 
Editorial  Medina,  1966. 

Reyes  Abadie,  Washington.  Historia  del  Partido  Nacional.  Mon- 
tevideo: Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1989. 


252 


Bibliography 


 Julio  Herreray  Obes.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda 

Oriental,  1977. 

 .  Latorre:  La  forja  delestado.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Ban- 
da  Oriental,  1977. 

Reyes  Abadie,  Washington,  and  Andres  Vazquez  Romero.  Crd- 
nica  general  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Orien- 
tal, 1979. 

Reyes  Abadie,  Washington,  Oscar  H.  Bruschera,  and  Tabare 
Melogno.  El  ciclo  artiquista.  Montevideo:  Universidad  de  la 
Republica,  1965. 

Rial,  Juan.  Partidos politicos,  democracia,  y  autoritarismo.  Montevideo: 
Centro  de  Informaciones  y  Estudios  del  Uruguay/Ediciones  de 
la  Banda  Oriental,  1984. 

 Uruguay  elecciones  de  1984:  Un  triunfo  del  centro.  Montevideo: 

Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1985. 

Rodriguez,  Hector.  Nuestros  sindicatos,  1865-1965.  Montevideo:  Edi- 
ciones Uruguay,  1965. 

Rodriguez  Villamil,  Silvia,  and  Graciela  Sapriza.  La  imigracion  eu- 
ropea  en  el  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Orien- 
tal, 1982. 

Sala  de  Touron,  Lucia,  and  Rosa  Alonso.  El  Uruguay  comercial: 
Pastorily  caudillesco — Tomo  I Economia.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de 
la  Banda  Oriental,  1986. 

Sala  de  Touron,  Lucia,  Nelson  de  la  Torre,  and  Julio  C.  Rodriguez. 
Estructura  economico- social  de  la  Colonia.  Montevideo:  Ediciones 
Pueblos  Unidos,  1967. 

Salterain  Herrera,  Eduardo  de.  Latorre.  Montevideo:  Estado  Mayor 
del  Ejercito,  1975. 

Solari,  Aldo,  and  Rolando  Franco.  Las  empresas  publicas  en  el  Uru- 
guay. Montevideo:  Fundacion  de  Cultura  Universitaria,  1983. 

Solari,  Aldo,  Nestor  Campiglia,  and  German  Wettstein.  Uruguay 
en  cifras.  Montevideo:  Universidad  de  la  Republica,  1966. 

Terra,  Gabriel,  Jr.  Gabriel  Terra y  la  verdad  historica.  Montevideo: 
1962. 

Torre,  Nelson  de  la,  Julio  C.  Rodriguez,  and  Lucia  Sala  de  Tou- 
ron. La  revolucion  agraria  artiguista,  1815-1816.  Montevideo:  Edi- 
ciones Pueblos  Unidos,  1969. 

Torres  Wilson,  Jose  de.  Brevisima  historia  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo: 
Ediciones  de  la  Planta,  1984. 

Vanger,  Milton  I.  Batlley  Ordonez:  El  creador  de  su  epoca,  1902-1907. 
Buenos  Aires:  Editorial  Universitaria  de  Buenos  Aires,  1968. 

 El  pais  modelo:  Jose  Batlley  Ordonez,  1907-1915.  Montevideo: 

Editorial  Arca/Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1983. 


253 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Vicario,  Luis.  El  crecimiento  urbano  de Montevideo.  Montevideo:  Edi- 
ciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1970. 

Viday  cultura  en  el  Rio  de  la  Plata,  1 .  (XVII  Cursos  Internacionales 
de  Verano.)  Montevideo:  Universidad  de  la  Republica,  1987. 

Visca,  Carlos.  Emilio  Reus y  su  epoca.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la 
Banda  Oriental,  1963. 

Weinstein,  Martin.  Uruguay:  Democracy  at  the  Crossroads.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

 Uruguay:  The  Politics  of  Failure.  Westport,  Connecticut: 

Greenwood  Press,  1975. 

-  "Uruguay's  Elections:  A  Prolonged  Transition  to  Democ- 
racy," NACLA  Report  on  the  Americas,  18,  No.  6,  November- 
December  1984,  12-15. 

Wilgus,  A.  Curtis.  Historical  Atlas  of  Latin  America:  Political,  Geo- 
graphic, Economic,  Cultural.  New  York:  Cooper  Square,  1967. 

Williman,  Jose  Claudio.  Santos:  La  consolidacion  del  estado.  Mon- 
tevideo: Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1979. 

Winn,  Peter.  El  imperio  informal  britdnico  en  el  Uruguay  en  el  siglo  XIX. 
Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1975. 

Wonsewer,  Israel,  Enrique  V.  Iglesias,  Mario  Buscheli,  and  Luis 
A.  Faroppa.  Aspectos  de  la  industrializacion  en  el  Uruguay.  Mon- 
tevideo: Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1987. 

Zubillaga,  Carlos.  De  la  tradicion  a  la  crisis.  Montevideo:  Centro 
Latinoamericano  de  Economia  Humana/Ediciones  de  la  Banda 
Oriental,  1985. 

Zubillaga,  Carlos,  and  Romeo  Perez.  El  Uruguay  de  nuestro  tiempo, 
1958-1983:  Los  partidos  politicos.  Montevideo:  Centro  Latino- 
americano de  Economia  Humana,  1983. 

Zum  Felde,  Alberto.  Proceso  historico  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo: 
Editorial  Area,  1967. 


Chapter  2 

Abadie  Soriano,  Roberto.  "The  Literacy  Campaign  in  Uruguay," 
Fundamental  and  Adult  Education,  10,  No.  1,  1958,  11-15. 

Aguiar,  Cesar  A.  Salario,  consumo,  emigracion.  Montevideo:  Funda- 
cion  de  Cultura  Universitaria,  1981. 

-  Uruguay:  Pais  de  emigracion.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la 
Banda  Oriental,  1982. 

Aguirre,  Rosario.  El  trabajo  informal  urbano  en  Montevideo.  Mon- 
tevideo: Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental/Centro  Interdisciplinary 
de  Estudios  del  Desarrollo,  Uruguay,  1986. 


254 


Bibliography 


Alisky,  Marvin.  Uruguay:  A  Contemporary  Survey.  New  York:  Prae- 
ger,  1969. 

Apezechea,  Hector,  Rafael  Bayace,  Enrique  Mazzei,  and  Danilo 
Veiga  (eds.).  La  nueva  crisis  urbana:  Pobreza  extrema y  pequenas  empre- 
sas.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1985. 

Ardao,  Arturo.  Racionalismo y  liberalismo  en  el  Uruguay.  Montevideo: 
Universidad  de  la  Republica,  1962. 

Arocena,  Jose.  "El  desarrollo  de  la  pequena  y  microempresa,"  Cua- 
dernos  del  CLAEH  [Montevideo],  12,  No.  42,  1987,  29-36. 

Astori,  Danilo.  Los  e<Marginados,}  uruguayos:  Teoria y  realidad.  (Te- 
mas  del  Siglo  XX  series.)  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda 
Oriental,  1984. 

Atlas  para  la  Republica  Oriental  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  Ediciones 
Raschetti/Ediciones  de  Montevideo,  1983. 

Azua,  Carlos  de.  Uruguay:  {Una  sociedad  amortiguadora?  Montevideo: 
Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1984. 

Barran,  Jose  Pedro,  and  Benjamin  Nahum.  Historia  rural  del  Uru- 
guay moderno.  (7  vols.)  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Orien- 
tal, 1967-78. 

Baumann,  Renate.  Brazil- Argentina-Uruguay:  A  Integracdo  em  debate. 
Sao  Paulo:  Editora  Marco  Zero,  Universidade  de  Brasilia,  1987. 

Bayce,  Rafael.  Elsistema  educativo  uruguayo,  1973-85.  (2  vols.)  Mon- 
tevideo: Centro  de  Investigation  y  Experimentation  Pedagogi- 
ca/Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1985-88. 

Bension,  Alberto,  and  Jorge  Caumont.  Politica  economicay  distribu- 
cion  del  ingreso  en  el  Uruguay,  1970-1976.  Montevideo:  Acali 
Editorial,  1979. 

Benton,  Lauren.  "Reshaping  the  Urban  Core:  The  Politics  of 
Housing  in  Authoritarian  Uruguay,"  Latin  American  Research 
Review,  21,  No.  2,  1986,  33-52. 

Benvenuto,  Luis  Carlos.  Uruguay  hoy.  Buenos  Aires:  Siglo  Vein- 
tiuno,  1971. 

Bon  Espasandin,  Mario.  Cantegriles.  Montevideo:  Tupac  Amaru, 
1963. 

Campiglia,  Nestor.  Los  grupos  de  presion  y  el  proceso  politico.  Mon- 
tevideo: Editorial  Area,  1969. 

 Migracion  interna  en  el  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  Universidad 

de  la  Republica,  1968. 

 Montevideo:  Poblacion  y  trabajo,  7.  (Nuestra  Tierra  series.) 

Montevideo:  Editorial  Nuestra  Tierra,  1971. 

Carpena,  Enrique.  "Clase  social,  ideologfa,  y  opinion  publica," 
Cuadernos  de  ciencias  sociales  [Montevideo],  1,  No.  1,  1970. 

Castagnola,  Jose  Luis.  "Participation  y  movimientos  sociales:  No- 
tas  sobre  un  debate  conceptual  y  sus  consecuencias  politicas," 


255 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Cuadernos  del  CLAEH  [Montevideo],  11,  No.  39,  1986,  65-79. 

 "Problematica  y  alternativas  culturales  de  los  nuevos  movi- 

mientos  sociales, ' '  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH  [Montevideo] ,11,  No. 
42,  1987,  65-81. 

Centro  de  Investigaciones  Economicas.  La  crisis  uruguayay  elproblema 
nacional.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1984. 

Collado,  E.G.,  and  Simon  G.  Hanson.  "Old  Age  Pensions  in  Uru- 
guay," Hispanic  American  Historical  Review,  16,  No.  2,  May  1936, 
173-89. 

Cortinas  Pelaez,  Leon.  "Autonomy  and  Student  Co-Government 
in  the  University  of  Uruguay,"  Comparative  Education  Review,  7, 
No.  2,  October  1963,  166-72. 

Das,  Man  Singh,  and  Clinton  J.  Jesser  (eds.).  The  Family  in  Latin 
America.  Ghaziabad,  India:  Vikas,  1980. 

Davis,  J.  Merle.  The  Evangelical  Church  in  the  River  Plate  Republics. 
New  York:  International  Missionary  Council,  1943. 

Davis,  Jack  Emory.  The  Spanish  of  Argentina  and  Uruguay:  An  Anno- 
tated Bibliography  for  1940-1978.  New  York:  Mouton,  1982. 

D'Elfa,  German.  El  movimiento  sindical.  Montevideo:  Coleccion 
"Nuestra  Tierra,"  1969. 

D'Elfa,  German,  and  Armando  Miraldi.  Historia  del  movimiento  obrero 
en  el  Uruguay:  Desde  sus  origenes  hasta  1930.  (Temas  del  Siglo  XX 
series.)  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1984. 

Elizaincfn,  Adolfo.  "The  Emergence  of  Bilingual  Dialects  on  the 
Brazilian-Uruguayan  Border,"  Linguistics  [Berlin],  No.  177, 
1976,  123-34. 

Errandonea,  Alfredo.  "Apuntes  sobre  la  conformation  de  las  clases 
sociales  en  el  medio  rural  uruguayo, "  Cuadernos  de  ciencias  sociales 
[Montevideo],  1,  No.  1,  1970,  9-54. 

.  Las  clases  sociales  en  el  Uruguay.  (Enciclopedia  Uruguaya  se- 
ries.) Montevideo:  Centro  Latinoamericano  de  Economfa  Hu- 
mana/Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1989. 

 "Las  clases  sociales  en  la  sociologfa  uruguaya:  Un  tema 

bloqueado,"  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH  [Montevideo],  11,  No.  39, 
1986,  23-42. 

 "Conflicto  de  clases,"  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH  [Montevideo], 

13,  Nos.  45-46,  1988,  175-92. 
Errandonea,  Alfredo,  and  Daniel  Costabile.  Sindicato y  sociedad  en 

el  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  Fundacion  de  Cultura  Universitaria, 

1968. 

Faroppa,  Luis.  Perspectivas  para  un  pais  en  crisis,  47.  (Nuestra  Tie- 
rra series.)  Montevideo:  Editorial  Nuestra  Tierra,  1969. 
Filgueira,  Carlos  H.  "Burocracia  y  clientela:  Una  polftica  de 


256 


Bibliography 


absorcion  de  tensiones,"  Cuadernos  de  ciencias  sociales  [Montevideo], 
1,  No.  1,  1970. 

 .  4 'Imbalance  y  movilidad  en  la  estructura  social:  El  caso 

uruguayo,"  Cuadernos  de  ciencias  sociales  [Montevideo],  3,  No.  3, 
1973. 

 "Indicadores  comparativos  de  los  departamentos  del  Uru- 
guay." Montevideo:  Centro  de  Informaciones  y  Estudios  del 
Uruguay,  1976. 

 Movimientos  sociales  en  el  Uruguay  de  hoy.  Montevideo:  Edi- 

ciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental/CLACSO,  1985. 

Filgueira,  Nea  (ed.).  La  mujer  en  el  Uruguay:  Ayery  hoy,  15.  (Temas 
del  Siglo  XX  series.)  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Orien- 
tal, 1984. 

Finch,  M.H  J.  A  Political  Economy  of  Uruguay  since  1970.  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1981. 

Finch,  M.H.J. ,  and  Alicia  Casas  de  Barran  (comps.).  Uruguay,  102. 
(World  Bibliographical  Series.)  Oxford:  Clio  Press,  1989. 

Fitzgibbon,  Russell  H.  "The  Political  Impact  of  Religious  Develop- 
ment in  Uruguay,"  Church  History,  22,  No.  1,  March  1953, 
21-32. 

 Uruguay:  Portrait  of  a  Democracy.  New  York:  Russell  and 

Russell,  1966. 

Fortuna,  Juan  Carlos.  "Las  polfticas  sociales  en  la  crisis  uruguaya." 
Montevideo:  Centro  de  Informaciones  y  Estudios  del  Uruguay, 
1985. 

Fortuna,  Juan  Carlos,  and  Suzana  Prates.  "Informal  Sector  Ver- 
sus Informalized  Labor  Relations  in  Uruguay."  Chapter  4  in 
Alejandro  Portes,  Manuel  Castells,  and  Lauren  Benton  (eds.), 
The  Informal  Economy.  Baltimore:  Johns  Hopkins  University  Press, 
1989. 

Ganon,  Isaac.  Estructura  social  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  Editorial 
AS,  1966. 

Gillespie,  Charles  Guy,  Louis  Goodman,  Juan  Rial,  and  Peter 

Winn.  Uruguay  y  la  democracia.  (3  vols.)  (Wilson  Center  Latin 

American  Program-Montevideo  Series.)  Montevideo:  Ediciones 

de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1984-85. 
Gonzalez,  Luis  E.  "Acerca  de  tres  analisis  marxistas  del  batllis- 

mo,"  Cuadernos  de  ciencias  sociales  [Montevideo],  2,  No.  2,  1972. 
 "Los  sindicatos  en  la  arena  politica,"  Cuadernos  de  marcha 

[Montevideo],  No.  9,  July  1986,  23-27. 
 "La  transformation  del  sistema  politico  uruguayo." 

(Master's  thesis.)  Bariloche,  Argentina:  Fundacion  Bariloche, 

1976. 


257 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

 "Uruguay,  1980-1981:  An  Unexpected  Opening,"  Lat- 
in American  Research  Review,  18,  No.  3,  1983,  63-76. 

Grupo  de  Estudios  Urbanos.  Una  ciudad  sin  memoria.  Montevideo: 
Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1983. 

Guarnieri,  Juan  Carlos.  Diccionario  del  lenguaje  Rioplatense.  Mon- 
tevideo: Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1979. 

Handelman,  Howard.  "Labor-Industrial  Conflict  and  the  Collapse 
of  Uruguayan  Democracy,"  Journal  of  Interamerican  Studies  and 
World  Affairs,  23,  No.  4,  November  1981,  371-94. 

Hanson,  Simon  Gabriel.  Utopia  in  Uruguay:  Chapters  in  the  Economic 
History  of  Uruguay,  n.p.:  n.  pub.,  1938.  Reprint.  Westport,  Con- 
necticut: Hyperian  Press,  1979. 

Hayes,  Robert  C.  Labor  Law  and  Practice  in  Uruguay,  88.  Washing- 
ton: Department  of  Commerce,  Bureau  of  Labor  Statistics,  1971. 

Hensey,  Frederick  Gerald.  The  Socio-Linguistics  of  the  Brazilian- 
Uruguayan  Border.  The  Hague:  Mouton,  1972. 

Hensey,  Fritz.  "Fronterizo:  A  Case  of  Phonological  Restructur- 
ing." Pages  47-59  in  Jacob  Ornstein  (ed.),  Three  Essays  on  Lin- 
guistic Diversity.  The  Hague:  Mouton,  1975. 

Hugarte,  Renzo  P. ,  and  Daniel  Vidari.  El  legado  de  los  inmigrantes, 
29  and  39.  (Nuestra  Tierra  series.)  Montevideo:  Editorial  Nues- 
tra  Tierra,  1969. 

Instituto  de  Ciencias  Sociales.  "Bibliografia  sobre  estratificacion 
y  estructura  de  clases  en  el  Uruguay,"  Cuadernos  de  ciencias  so- 
ciales [Montevideo],  1,  No.  1,  1970. 

Instituto  de  Economia.  El proceso  economico  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo: 
Universidad  de  la  Republica,  1969. 

Inter- American  Development  Bank.  Economic  and  Social  Progress  in 
Latin  American.  Washington:  1989. 

Katzman,  Ruben.  "Youth  and  Unemployment  in  Montevideo," 
CEPAL  Review  [Santiago,  Chile],  No.  29,  August  1986,  119-31. 

Klaczko,  Jaime,  and  Juan  Rial.  Uruguay:  El  pais  urbano.  Mon- 
tevideo: Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental/CLACSO,  1981. 

Kurian,  George  Thomas.  "Uruguay."  Pages  1596-1601  in 
George  Thomas  Kurian  (ed.),  World  Education  Encyclopedia.  New 
York:  Facts  on  File,  1988. 

Liebman,  Arthur,  Kenneth  N.  Walker,  and  Myron  Glazer.  Latin 
American  University  Students.  Cambridge:  Harvard  University 
Press,  1972. 

Longhi  Zunino,  Au gusto.  Las  clases  sociales  y  el  futuro  nacional,  5. 

(Uruguay  Hoy  series.)  Montevideo:  Centro  Interdisciplinario 

de  Estudios  del  Desarrollo,  Uruguay,  1988. 
Marsilio,  Horacio  de.  El  lenguaje  de  los  uruguayos,  24. •  (Nuestra  Tierra 

series.)  Montevideo:  Editorial  Nuestra  Terra,  1969. 


258 


Bibliography 


Martin,  Percy  A.,  and  Earl  Smith.  "Labor  Legislation  in  Uru- 
guay," Monthly  Labor  Review,  25,  October  1927,  726-33. 

Martinez  Bengochea,  Pablo,  and  Alicia  Melgar.  "Evolucion  de 
precios  e  ingresos,  1985-1986,"  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH  [Mon- 
tevideo], 11,  No.  39,  1986,  81-106. 

Martorelli,  Horacio.  Poder,  politica,  y  sociedad.  Montevideo:  Ediciones 
de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1983. 

 La  sociedad  rural  uruguayo,  5.  (Coleccion  Temas  Nacionales 

series.)  Montevideo:  Fundacion  de  Cultura  Universitaria/Centro 
Interdisciplinary  de  Estudios  del  Desarrollo,  Uruguay,  1982. 

May,  Jacques  Meyer,  and  Donna  L.  McLellan.  "Uruguay."  Pages 
359-419  in  Jacques  Meyer  May  and  Donna  L.  McLellan  (eds.), 
The  Ecology  of  Malnutrition  in  Eastern  South  America.  New  York:  Haf- 
ner  Press,  1974. 

Mazzei,  Enrique,  and  Danilo  Veiga.  "Heterogeneidad  y  diferen- 
ciacion  social  en  sectores  de  pobreza  extreme"  Montevideo: 
Centro  de  Informaciones  y  Estudios  del  Uruguay,  1985. 

 Indicadores  socioeconomics  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  Cen- 
tro de  Informaciones  y  Estudios  del  Uruguay,  1989. 

Mecham,  J.  Lloyd.  "Separation  in  Uruguay."  Pages  252-60  in 
J.  Lloyd  Mecham  (ed.),  Church  and  State  in  Latin  America.  Chapel 
Hill:  University  of  North  Carolina  Press,  1966. 

Melgar,  Alicia.  Distribucion  del  ingreso  en  el  Uruguay,  18.  Montevideo: 
Centro  Latinoamericano  de  Economia  Humana,  1981. 

 "El  mercado  de  trabajo  en  el  Uruguay:  Recesion  y  reac- 

tivacion."  Montevideo:  Centro  de  Investigaciones  Economicas, 
1987. 

Melgar,  Alicia,  and  Fabio  Villalobos.  La  desigualdad  como  estrategia, 
5.  (Coleccion  Argumentos  series.)  Montevideo:  Centro  Latino- 
americano de  Economia  Humana/Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Orien- 
tal, 1986. 

Meo  Zilio,  Giovanni,  and  Ettore  Rossi.  Elelemento  italiano  en  elhabla 
de  Buenos  Aires  y  Montevideo.  Florence:  Valmartina,  1970. 

Mesa-Lago,  Carmelo  (ed.).  Social  Security  in  Latin  America:  Pressure 
Groups,  Stratification,  and  Inequality.  Pittsburgh:  University  of  Pitts- 
burgh Press,  1978. 

Mizrahi,  Roberto.  "La  economia  del  sector  informal:  La  dinami- 
ca  de  las  pequefias  unidades  y  su  viabilidad,"  Cuadernos  del 
CLAEH  [Montevideo],  11,  No.  40,  1986,  5-22. 

Nichols,  Madaline  Wallis.  The  Gaucho:  Cattle  Hunter,  Cavalryman, 
Ideal  of  Romance.  Durham:  Duke  University,  1942.  Reprint.  New 
York:  Gordian  Press,  1968. 

Notaro,  Jorge.  La  politica  econdmica  en  el  Uruguay,  1968-1984. 


259 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Montevideo:  Gentro  Interdisciplinario  de  Estudios  del  Desarro- 

llo,  Uruguay,  1984. 
Oddone,  Juan  Antonio.  La  formation  del  Uruguay  moderno.  Buenos 

Aires:  Editorial  Universitaria  de  Buenos  Aires,  1966. 
Oddone,  Juan  Antonio,  and  Blanca  Paris.  La  universidad  uruguaya 

del  militarismo  a  la  crisis,  1885-1958.  (3  vols.)  Montevideo:  Univer- 
sidad de  la  Republica,  1971. 
Panizza,  Francisco.  "El  clientelismo  en  la  teona  politica  contem- 

poranea,"  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH  [Montevideo] ,  12,  No.  44,  1987, 

63-70. 

Pedretti  de  Bolon,  Alma.  El  idioma  de  los  uruguayos:  Unidady  diver- 
sidad.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1983. 

Pendle,  George.  Uruguay:  South  America's  First  Welfare  State.  (2ded.) 
London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1957. 

Pereda  Valdes,  Ildefonso.  El  Negro  en  el  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  Revis- 
ta  del  Instituto  Historico  y  Geografico  del  Uruguay,  1965. 

Perez,  Romeo.  1  'Lo  social  y  lo  politico  en  la  dinamica  de  los  movi- 
mientos  sociales  urbanos,"  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH  [Montevideo], 
12,  No.  42,  1987,  29-38. 

Perez,  Romeo,  and  Piedro  Cueva.  "Movimientos  sociales  urbanos 
y  sistema  politico:  El  caso  de  Paso  Carrasco,"  Cuadernos  del 
CLAEH  [Montevideo],  11,  No.  40,  1986,  23-43. 

Petrucelli,  Jose  Luis.  "Consequences  of  Uruguayan  Emigration," 
International  Migration  Review,  13,  No.  3,  Fall  1979,  519-26. 

Picerno,  Alfredo,  and  Pablo  Mieres  (eds.).  Uruguay:  Indicadores  bdsi- 
cos.  Montevideo:  Centro  Latinoamericano  de  Economia  Hu- 
mana, 1983. 

Portes,  Alejandro.  "Latin  American  Urbanization  During  the 
Years  of  Crisis,"  Latin  American  Research  Review,  24,  No.  3,  1989, 
7-44. 

Portes,  Alejandro,  Silvia  Blitzer,  and  John  Curtis.  "The  Urban 
Informal  Sector  in  Uruguay , "  World  Development,  14,  No.  6,  June 
1986,  727-41. 

Porzecanski,  Arturo  C.  "The  Case  of  Uruguay."  Pages  70-112 
in  Carmelo  Mesa-Lago  (ed.),  Social  Security  in  Latin  America:  Pres- 
sure Groups,  Stratification,  and  Inequality.  Pittsburgh:  University  of 
Pittsburgh  Press,  1978. 

Prates,  Suzana.  "El  trabajo  de  la  mujer  en  una  epoca  de  crisis  (o 
cuando  se  pierde  ganando)."  In  Nea  Filgueira  (ed.),  La  Mujer 
en  el  Uruguay:  Ayery  hoy,  15.  (Temas  del  Siglo  XX  series.)  Mon- 
tevideo: Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1984. 

Rama,  Carlos  M.  Las  clases  sociales  en  el  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  El 
Siglo  Ilustrado,  1960. 


260 


Bibliography 


 "The  Passing  of  the  Afro-Uruguayans  from  Caste  Socie- 
ty into  Class  Society."  Pages  28-50  in  Magnus  Morner  (ed.), 
Conference  on  Race  and  Class  in  Latin  America.  New  York:  Colum- 
bia University  Press,  1970. 

Rama,  German  W.  El  ascenso  de  las  clases  medias,  36.  (Enciclopedia 
Uruguaya  series.)  Montevideo:  Editores  Reunidos,  1968. 

 El  club  politico.  Montevideo:  Editorial  Area,  1971. 

Real  de  Aziia,  Carlos.  La  clase  dirigente,  34.  (Nuestra  Tierra  se- 
ries.) Montevideo:  Editorial  Nuestra  Tierra,  n.d. 

 El  impulso y  sufreno.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda 

Oriental,  1964. 

 "El  poder  de  la  cupide:  Elites,  sectores  dirigentes,  y  clase 

dominante,"  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH  [Montevideo],  42,  No.  2, 
1987,  42-57. 

Rial,  Juan.  "Immigracion  y  urbanizacion  en  el  Rio  de  la  Plata 
con  especial  referenda  a  la  corriente  espafiola  y  el  caso  de  Mon- 
tevideo, Uruguay."  (Documentos  de  Trabajo  series,  89).  Mon- 
tevideo: Centro  de  Informaciones  y  Estudios  del  Uruguay,  n.d. 

 Poblaciony  desarrollo  de  un  pequeno  pais:  Uruguay,  1830-1930. 

Montevideo:  Acali  Editorial,  1983. 

Rial,  Juan,  and  Jaime  Klaczko.  Uruguay:  El  pais  urbano.  Mon- 
tevideo: Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1981. 

Rode,  Patricio.  "Las  polfticas  sociales  en  el  proceso  de 
redemocratizacion,"  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH  [Montevideo] ,  10,  No. 
35,  1985,  23-42. 

Rodriguez,  Hector.  Nuestros  sindicatos,  1865-1965.  Montevideo:  Edi- 
ciones Uruguay,  1965. 

Rodriguez  Villamil,  Silvia,  and  Graciela  Sapriza.  La  inmigracion 
europea  en  el  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Orien- 
tal, 1982. 

Rosario  Beisso,  Maria  del,  and  Jose  Luis  Castagnola.  "Identidades 
sociales  y  cultura  politica  en  Uruguay,"  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH 
[Montevideo],  12,  No.  44,  1987,  9-18. 

Rothman,  Ana  M.  "Evolution  of  Fertility  in  Argentina  and  Uru- 
guay." Pages  712-32  in  International  Union  for  the  Scientific 
Study  of  Population  (eds.),  International  Population  Conference,  1. 
Liege,  Belgium:  1971. 

Royol,  Jose.  La  salud  publica,  48.  (Nuestra  Tierra  series.)  Mon- 
tevideo: Editorial  Nuestra  Tierra,  1969. 

Sanguinetti  Freire,  Alberto.  "Social  Legislation  in  Uruguay,"  In- 
ternational Labour  Review  [Geneva],  59,  No.  3,  March  1949, 
271-96. 

Santa  Ana,  Julio  de.  Aspectos  religiosos  de  la  sociedad  uruguaya.  Mon- 
tevideo: Centro  de  Estudios  Cristianos,  1965. 


261 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

Sierra,  Geronimo  de.  "El  batllismo:  Su  naturaleza  y  su  funcion 
de  clase  (conjunto  de  hipotesis),"  Cuadernos  de  ciencias  sociales 
[Montevideo],  1,  No.  1,  1972. 

 "Estructura  economica  y  estructura  de  clases  en  el  Uru- 
guay," Cuadernos  de  ciencias  sociales  [Montevideo],  1,  No.  1,  1970. 

 Sociedad  y  politica  en  el  Uruguay  de  la  crisis.  Montevideo: 

Librosur,  1985. 

Solari,  Aldo.  El  desarrollo  social  del  Uruguay  en  la  postguerra.  Mon- 
tevideo: Editorial  Area,  1967. 

 "El  envejecimiento  de  la  poblacion  uruguaya  30  afios 

despues,"  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH[ Montevideo],  12,  No.  43,  1987, 
7-26. 

 Estudios  sobre  la  sociedad  uruguaya,  1.  Montevideo:  Edito- 
rial Area,  1964. 

 Sociologia  rural  latinoamericana.  Buenos  Aires:  Editorial 

Universitaria  de  Buenos  Aires,  1963. 
_  _.  Sociologia  rural  nacional.  (2d  ed.)  Montevideo:  Facultad  de 

Derecho  y  Ciencias  Sociales,  1958. 

Uruguay  en  cifras.  Montevideo:  Universidad  de  la  Repu- 

blica,  1966. 

Solari,  Aldo,  and  Rolando  Franco.  "Equality  of  Opportunities  and 
Elitism  in  the  Uruguayan  University,"  NorthSouth,  6,  No.  11, 
1981,  1-16. 

 "The  Family  in  Uruguay."  Pages  46-83  in  Man  Singh 

Das  and  Clinton  J.  Jesser  (eds.),  The  Family  in  Latin  America. 
Ghaziabad,  India:  Vikas,  1980. 

Solari,  Aldo,  Nestor  Campiglia,  and  Susana  Prates.  "Education, 
Occupation,  and  Development,"  International  Social  Science  Jour- 
nal [Geneva],  19,  No.  3,  1967,  404-15. 

Soler  Roca,  Miguel.  Uruguay:  Andlisis  critico  de  los  programas  escolares 
de  1949,  1957,  y  1979.  Barcelona:  Imprenta  Juvenil,  1984. 

Taglioretti,  Graciela.  Women  and  Work  in  Uruguay.  Paris:  United  Na- 
tions Educational,  Scientific,  and  Cultural  Organization,  1983. 

Terra,  Juan  Pablo.  "Distribution  social  del  ingreso  en  Uruguay." 
(Investigaciones  series,  31.)  Montevideo:  Centro  Latino- 
americano  de  Economia  Humana,  n.d. 

-  La  vivienda,  38.  Montevideo:  Editorial  Nuestra  Tierra, 
1969. 

Terra,  Juan  Pablo,  and  Mabel  Hopenhaym.  La  infancia  en  el  Uru- 
guay (1973-1984).  Montevideo:  Centro  Latinoamericano  de 
Economia  Humana/United  Nations  Children's  Fund/Ediciones 
de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1986. 

Traversoni,  Alfredo,  and  Diosma  Piotti.  Nuestro  sistema  educativo  hoy. 
Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1984. 


262 


Bibliography 


United  Nations  Development  Programme.  Human  Development 
Report,  1990.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1990. 

Ures,  Jorge.  "La  relacion  clase-voto  en  Montevideo  en  las  elec- 
ciones  del  28  de  noviembre  de  1971 ,"  Revista  uruguaya  de  ciencias 
sociales  [Montevideo],  1,  No.  1,  April-June  1972. 

Uruguay.  Direccion  General  de  Estadistica  y  Censos.  Anuario  es- 
tadistico,  1988.  Montevideo:  1989. 

Van  Aken,  Mark  J.  "The  Radicalization  of  the  Uruguayan  Stu- 
dent Movement,"  The  Americas  (Academy  of  American  Franciscan 
History),  33,  No.  1,  1976,  109-29. 

Veiga,  Danilo.  "Socioeconomic  Structure  and  Population  Displace- 
ments: The  Uruguayan  Case,"  NorthSouth,  6,  No.  12,  1981,  1-25. 

 "Tipologfa  departmental  y  desarrollo  regional  en  el  Uru- 
guay." (Documentos  de  Trabajo,  11.)  Montevideo:  Centro  de 
Informaciones  y  Estudios  del  Uruguay,  1978. 

Villalobos,  Fabio.  "Las  politicas  de  ajuste  el  proceso  de  industria- 
lizacion:  Uruguay,  1980-1985,"  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH  [Mon- 
tevideo], 11,  No.  38,  1986,  85-105. 

Villegas,  Juan  S.J.  La  iglesia  en  el  Uruguay:  Libro  conmemorativo  en 
el  primero  centenario  de  la  ereccion  del  obispado  de  Montevideo.  Mon- 
tevideo: Instituto  Teologico  del  Uruguay,  1978. 

Weinstein,  Martin.  Uruguay:  Democracy  at  the  Crossroads.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

 Uruguay:  The  Politics  of  Failure.  Westport,  Connecticut: 

Greenwood  Press,  1975. 

Wonsewer,  Israel,  and  Anna  Maria  Teja.  La  emigracion  uruguaya, 
1963-75.  Montevideo:  Centro  de  Investigaciones  Economi- 
cas/Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1983. 

Wood,  James  R.,  and  Eugene  A.  Weinstein.  "Industrialization 
Values  and  Occupational  Evaluation  in  Uruguay,"  American  Jour- 
nal of  Sociology,  72,  No.  1,  July  1966,  47-57. 

World  Bank.  Uruguay  Economic  Memorandum.  Washington:  1979. 

Zum  Felde,  Alberto.  Proceso  historico  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo: 
Editorial  Area,  1967. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodical  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Busqueda  [Montevideo].) 


Chapter  3 

Academia  Nacional  de  Economfa.  Contribucion  a  la  historia  economi- 

ca  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  1984. 
Alonso,  Jose  M.  "El  agro  en  el  Uruguay  del  futuro. ' '  Pages  47-65 


263 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


in  Jose  M.  Alonso  (ed.),  Ambiente y  desarrollo.  (Temas  del  Siglo 

series.)  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1985. 
Bergstein,  Jonas.  "Foreign  Investment  in  Uruguay:  A  Law  and 

Development  Perspective,"  University  of  Miami  Inter-American  Law 

Review,  20,  Spring  1989,  351-92. 
"Betting  on  Blanco,"  Economist,  309,  Nos.  75-78,  December  2, 

1989,  50. 

Blejer,  Mario  I.,  and  Jose  Gil  Diaz.  "Domestic  and  External  Fac- 
tors in  the  Determination  of  the  Real  Interest  Rate:  The  Case 
of  Uruguay,"  Economic  Development  and  Cultural  Change,  34, 
No.  3,  April  1986,  589-606. 

Bolton,  Brian.  "Latin  America  250,"  South:  The  Third  World  Maga- 
zine [London],  No.  102,  April  1989,  45-51. 

Bronstein,  Arturo  S.  "The  Evolution  of  Labour  Relations  in  Uru- 
guay: Achievements  and  Challenges,"  International  Labour  Review 
[London],  128,  No.  2,  March- April  1989,  195-212. 

Burton,  Robert  Henderson,  II.  "Uruguay:  A  Study  of  Arrested 
Economic  Development."  (Ph.D.  dissertation.)  New  Orleans: 
Department  of  Economics,  Louisiana  State  University,  1967. 

Buzzetti,  Jose  L.  Historia  economica  y  financiera  del  Uruguay.  Mon- 
tevideo: Talleres  de  la  Paz,  1969. 

Caneela  Vilanova,  Walter.  El  Uruguay  actual:  Un  enfoque  economico. 
Montevideo:  Fundacion  de  Cultura  Universitaria,  1979. 

Centro  de  Investigaciones  Economicas.  La  Crisis  uruguayay  elproblema 
nacional.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  de  la  Banda  Oriental,  1984. 

Daroczi,  Isabel,  Elena  Garcia,  and  Miguel  Liguera.  Atlas  para  la 
Republica  Oriental  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo:  Ediciones  Rashet- 
ti/Ediciones  de  Montevideo,  1983. 

Diaz  Alejandro,  Carlos.  "Latin  America  in  the  1930s."  Pages 
17-49  in  Rosemary  Thorp  (ed.),  Latin  America  in  the  1930s.  Lon- 
don: Macmillan  Press  for  Oxford  University,  1984. 

Economist  Intelligence  Unit.  Country  Report:  Uruguay,  Paraguay  [Lon- 
don], No.  1,  1987,  6-23. 

 Country  Report:  Uruguay,  Paraguay  [London],  Nos.  1-4, 

1989. 

 Country  Report:  Uruguay,  Paraguay  [London],  No.  1,  1990. 

Europa  World  Year  Book,  1989.  London:  Europa,  1989. 
Faraone,  Roque.  Introduccion  a  la  historia  del  Uruguay,  1825-1973. 

Montevideo:  Editorial  Area,  1974. 
Finch,  M.H.J.  A  Political  Economy  of  Uruguay  since  1870.  New  York: 

St.  Martin's  Press,  1981. 
Furtado,  Celso.  Economic  Development  of  Latin  America.  (2d  ed.) 

(Trans.,  Suzette  Macedo.)  (Cambridge  Latin  America  Series.) 

London:  Cambridge  University  Press,  1976. 


264 


Bibliography 

Gauhar,  Altaf.  ''Consensus  Politics  Sanguinetti  Style,"  South  [Lon- 
don], No.  88,  February  1988,  15-17. 

Instituto  de  Economia.  La  Crisis  Economica.  (Nuestra  Tierra  ser- 
ies.) Montevideo:  Universidad  de  la  Republica,  1988. 

 Uruguay  }87.  Montevideo:  Universidad  de  la  Republica, 

1987. 

Inter- American  Development  Bank.  Economic  and  Social  Progress  in 

Latin  America.  Washington:  1989. 
International  Monetary  Fund.  International  Financial  Statistics. 

Washington:  1990. 
Jane's  World  Railways,  1989-90.  (Ed.,  Geoffrey  Allen.)  Coulsdon, 

Surrey,  United  Kingdom:  Jane's  Information  Group,  1989. 
Katzman,  Ruben.  "Youth  and  Unemployment  in  Montevideo," 

CEPAL  Review  [Santiago,  Chile],  No.  29,  August  1986,  119-31. 
Kneit,  Julio.  Uruguay  1985:  La  luz  tras  las  tinieblas.  Montevideo: 

Prisma,  1985. 

Kurian,  George  Thomas.  Encyclopedia  of  the  Third  World,  3.  (3d  ed.) 
New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987. 

Larrain,  Felipe  B.  "La  reforma  financiera  uruguaya  de  los  seten- 
ta:  De  la  liberalization  a  la  crisis,"  Trimestre  economico  [Mexico 
City],  55,  July-September  1988,  605-47. 

Macadar,  Luis.  "Uruguay:  Crisis  externa  e  insertion  subregional — 
El  comercio  con  Argentina  y  Brazil,  1975-84,"  Integracion  latino- 
americana  [Buenos  Aires],  12,  No.  127,  September  1987,  3-19. 

Melo,  Jaime  de.  "Financial  Reforms,  Stabilization,  and  Growth 
under  High  Capital  Mobility:  Uruguay,  1974-83."  Pages  229-49 
in  Michael  Connolly  and  Claudio  Gonzalez- Vega  (eds.),  Eco- 
nomic Reform  and  Stabilization  in  Latin  America.  New  York:  Prae- 
ger,  1987. 

Millot,  Julio,  Carlos  Silva,  and  Lindor  Silva.  Eldesarrollo  industrial 
del  Uruguay:  De  la  crisis  de  1929  a  laposguerra.  Montevideo:  Univer- 
sidad de  la  Republica,  1973. 

"Montevideo's  Mixed  Blessings,"  South  [London],  No.  89,  March 
1988,  80-81. 

Pascale,  Graziano.  "Lacalle:  En  la  via  de  la  integracion,"  Vision 
[Montevideo],  74,  No.  6,  February  19,  1990,  8-10. 

Portes,  Alejandro.  "The  Urban  Informal  Sector  in  Uruguay:  Its 
Internal  Structure,  Characteristics,  and  Effects,"  World  Develop- 
ment [Oxford],  14,  No.  6,  June  1986,  727-41. 

Reyes  Abadie,  Washington,  and  Jose  C.  Williman.  Economia  del 
Uruguay  en  el  siglo  XIX,  32.  (Nuestra  Tierra  series.)  Montevideo: 
Universidad  de  la  Republica,  1969. 


265 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Rial  Roade,  Juan.  (Trans.,  Lisa  Ebener  and  Gerald  M.  Green- 
field.) "Uruguay."  Pages  701-25  in  Gerald  M.  Greenfield  and 
Sheldon  L.  Maram  (eds.),  Latin  American  Labor  Organizations. 
Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1987. 

Sachs,  Jeffrey.  "Recent  Studies  in  the  Latin  American  Debt  Cri- 
sis," Latin  American  Research  Review,  23,  No.  3,  1988,  170-79. 

Sanders,  Thomas  G.  Uruguay's  Return  to  Democracy.  (Universities 
Field  Staff  International,  UFSI  Reports,  Latin  America,  No. 
22.)  Indianapolis:  1985. 

Sjaastad,  Larry  A.  "Debt,  Depression,  and  Real  Rates  of  Interest 
in  Latin  America."  Pages  21-39  in  Philip  L.  Brock,  Michael 
B.  Connolly,  and  Claudio  Gonzalez- Vega  (eds.),  Latin  Ameri- 
can Debt  and  Adjustment.  New  York:  Praeger,  1989. 

Spiller,  Pablo  T.  "Uruguay."  Pages  70-72  in  Nicolas  Ardito  Barle- 
ta,  Mario  Blejer,  and  Luis  Landau  (eds.),  Economic  Liberaliza- 
tion and  Stabilization  Policies  in  Argentina,  Chile,  and  Uruguay. 
Washington:  World  Bank,  1983. 

United  Nations.  Economic  Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean.  Economic  Panorama  of  Latin  America,  1988.  Santiago, 
Chile:  1988. 

United  States.  Central  Intelligence  Agency.  The  World  Factbook, 
1989.  Washington:  1989. 

 Department  of  Commerce.  Foreign  Economic  Trends  and 

Their  Implications  for  the  United  States :  Uruguay.  Washington:  Sep- 
tember 1988. 

Department  of  Commerce.  Foreign  Economic  Trends  and 
Their  Implications  for  the  United  States :  Uruguay.  Washington:  Janu- 
ary 1990. 

Uruguay.  Direccion  General  de  Estadfstica  y  Censos.  Anuario  es- 

tadistico,  1988.  Montevideo:  1989. 
 Ministerio  de  Economfa  y  Finanzas.  Uruguay:  Un  retrato 

economico.  Montevideo:  1988. 

.  Presidencia  de  la  Republica.  Cuatro  anos  de  democracia.  (Serie 

informe  del  poder  ejecutivo  a  la  Asamblea  General.)  Montevideo: 

1989. 

"Uruguay  Sets  a  Fragile  Example,"  Economist  [London],  308,  No. 
7569,  September  24,  1988,  96. 

Wilkie,  James,  and  Enrique  Ochoa.  Statistical  Abstract  of  Latin  Ameri- 
ca, 27.  Los  Angeles:  Latin  American  Center,  University  of 
California  at  Los  Angeles,  1989. 

Williman,  Jose  Claudio.  Historia  economica  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo: 
Ediciones  de  la  Plaza,  1986. 

World  Bank.  World  Debt  Tables.  (External  Debt  of  Developing  Coun- 
tries Series.)  Washington:  1989. 


266 


Bibliography 


World  Radio  TV  Handbook.  (Ed.,  Andrew  Sennitt.)  Hvidovre, 
Denmark:  Billboard,  1990. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Business  Latin  America,  July  1989, 
January-March  1990;  Busqueda  [Montevideo],  1989-90;  Christian 
Science  Monitor,  November  1989;  Euromoney  [London],  March  1989; 
Guia  financiera  [Montevideo],  February-March  1989;  Latin  Ameri- 
can Economic  Report  [London],  1988-90;  Latin  American  Monitor  [Lon- 
don], July- August  1989;  Latin  American  Regional  Reports:  Southern 
Cone  [London],  1988-90;  Latinamerica  Press  [Lima],  November  1989; 
Los  Angeles  Times,  April  1989;  and  New  York  Times,  November  1989.) 

Chapter  4 

Alisky,  Marvin.  Uruguay:  A  Contemporary  Survey.  New  York:  Prae- 
ger,  1969. 

Blaustein,  Albert  P.,  and  Gisbert  H.  Flanz.  Constitutions  of  the  Coun- 
tries of  the  World.  Dobbs  Ferry,  New  York:  Oceana,  1982. 

Bronstein,  Arturo  S.  "The  Evolution  of  Labour  Relations  in  Uru- 
guay: Achievements  and  Challenges,"  International  Labour  Review 
[London],  128,  No.  2,  March-April  1989,  195-212. 

Bruschera,  Oscar,  Evolucion  institucional  del  Uruguay  en  el  siglo  XX. 
(Cuadernos  Uruguayos  series.)  Montevideo:  Ediciones  del  Nuevo 
Mundo,  1988. 

Day,  Alan  J.  (ed.).  Political  Parties  of  the  World.  Chicago:  St.  James 
Press,  1988. 

Europa  World  Year  Book,  1989.  London:  Europa,  1989. 

Finch,  M.H.J.  "Democratisation  in  Uruguay,"  Third  World  Quar- 
terly [London],  7,  No.  3,  July  1985,  594-609. 

Finch,  M.H.J. ,  and  Alicia  Casas  de  Barran  (comps.).  Uruguay,  102. 
(World  Bibliographical  Series.)  Oxford:  Clio  Press,  1989. 

Fitzgibbon,  Russell  H.  Uruguay:  Portrait  of  a  Democracy.  New  York: 
Russell  and  Russell,  1966. 

Gillespie,  Charles  Guy.  "Democratic  Consolidation  in  the  Southern 
Cone  and  Brazil:  Beyond  Political  Disarticulation?"  Third  World 
Quarterly  [London],  11,  No.  2,  April  1989,  92-113. 

 Negotiating  Democracy:  Politicians  and  Generals  in  Uruguay. 

(Cambridge  Latin  American  Studies,  72.)  Cambridge:  Cam- 
bridge University  Press,  1991. 

 "Party  Strategies  and  Redemocratization:  Theoretical  and 

Comparative  Perspectives  on  the  Uruguayan  Case."  (Ph.D.  dis- 
sertation, Yale  University,  1987.)  Ann  Arbor:  Dissertation  Ab- 
stracts International,  DA8917178. 


267 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

 "Uruguay's  Return  to  Democracy, ' '  Bulletin  of  Latin  Ameri- 
can Research  [London],  4,  No.  2,  1985,  99-197. 

Gonzalez,  Luis  Eduardo.  ''Political  Structures  and  the  Prospects 
for  Democracy  in  Uruguay."  (Ph.D.  dissertation,  Yale  Univer- 
sity, 1988.)  Ann  Arbor:  Dissertation  Abstracts  International, 
DA8917181. 

 "Uruguay,  1980-1981:  An  Unexpected  Opening,"  Lat- 
in American  Research  Review,  18,  No.  3,  1983,  63-76. 

Hobday,  Charles.  Communist  and  Marxist  Parties  of  the  World.  (Kees- 
ing's  Reference  Publication  Series.)  Burnt  Mill,  Harlow,  Essex, 
United  Kingdom:  Longman  Group,  1986. 

Instituto  de  Comunicacion  y  Desarrollo.  Mass  media:  Laguta.  Mon- 
tevideo: November  1987. 

Kaufman,  Edy.  Uruguay  in  Transition.  New  Brunswick,  New  Jer- 
sey: Transaction  Books,  1979. 

Khachaturov,  K.  "Soviet-Uruguayan  Relations:  Yesterday  and 
Today,"  International  Affairs  [Moscow],  No.  9,  September  1986, 
67-74. 

Kurian,  George  Thomas.  Encyclopedia  of  the  Third  World,  3.  (3d  ed.) 
New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987. 

"The  Legal  System  of  Uruguay."  Pages  237-56  in  Kenneth  Robert 
Redden  (ed.),  Modern  Legal  Systems  Cyclopedia,  10.  Buffalo:  Wil- 
liam S.  Hein,  1985. 

Lindahl,  Goran  G.  Uruguay's  New  Path:  A  Study  in  Politics  During 
the  First  Colegiado,  1919-33.  Stockholm:  Broderna  Lagerstrom, 
1962. 

McDonald,  Ronald  H.  "Confrontation  and  Transition  in  Uru- 
guay," Current  History,  84,  No.  498,  February  1985,  57-60,  87-88. 

 "The  Dilemma  of  Normalcy  in  Uruguay, ' '  Current  Histo- 
ry, 87,  No.  525,  January  1988,  25-28,  35-36. 

 _.  "Legislative  Politics  in  Uruguay:  A  Preliminary  State- 
ment." Pages  113-35  in  Winston  A.  Agor  (ed.),  Latin  American 
Legislatures:  Their  Role  and  Influence.  New  York:  Praeger,  1971. 

.  '  'The  Struggle  for  Normalcy  in  Uruguay, ' '  Current  History, 
81,  No.  472,  February  1982,  69-73,  85-86. 

McDonald,  Ronald  H.,  and  J.  Mark  Ruhl.  Party  Politics  and  Elec- 
tions in  Latin  America.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1989. 

Mieres,  Pablo.  "Un  sistema  de  partidos  en  transition:  Notas 
preliminares  a  proposito  de  los  resultados  de  las  elecciones  na- 
cionalesde  1989,"  Cuadernos  del  CLAEH[ Montevideo],  15,  No. 
53,  1990,  5-22. 

Pendle,  George.  Uruguay:  South  America's  First  Welfare  State.  (3ded.) 
London:  Oxford  University  Press,  1965.  Reprint.  Westport, 
Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1985. 


268 


Bibliography 


Portillo,  Alvaro,  and  Enrique  Gallicchio.  Montevideo:  Geografia  elec- 
toral. Montevideo:  Centro  Uruguaya  Independiente,  1988. 

Porzecanski,  Arturo  C.  "Authoritarian  Uruguay,"  Current  History, 
76,  No.  416,  February  1977,  73-75,  85-86. 

Quagliotti  de  Bellis,  Bernardo.  "El  Uruguay  internacional:  Resefia 
historica,"  Geosur:  Asociacion  Sudamericana  de  Estudios  Geopoliticos 
e  Internacionales  [Montevideo],  19,  Nos.  1 1 1-12,  July- August 
1989,  3-18. 

Rama,  German  W.  La  democracia  en  Uruguay:  Una  perspectiva  de  in- 
terpretation. Buenos  Aires:  Grupo  Editor  Latinoamericano,  1987. 

Sanders,  Thomas  G.  Uruguay's  Return  to  Democracy.  (Universities 
Field  Staff  International,  UFSI  Reports,  Latin  America,  No. 
22.)  Indianapolis:  1985. 

Solari,  Aldo.  Partidos  politicos y  sistema  electoral.  Montevideo:  El  Libro 
Libre/Fundacion  Uruguaya  para  el  Fomento  de  la  Cultura,  la 
Ciencia,  y  la  Tecnologia,  1988. 

Taylor,  Philip  B.,  Jr.  Government  and  Politics  of  Uruguay.  Westport, 
Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press,  1984. 

United  States.  Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights 
Practices  for  1988.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress, 
101st,  1st  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations,  and 
House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.) 
Washington:  GPO,  February  1989. 

Uruguay.  Constitution  de  la  Republica  del  Uruguay y  actas  institucionales 
vigentes.  Montevideo:  Corporation  Grafica,  1980. 

Uruguay.  Presidencia  de  la  Republica.  Oficina  Nacional  del  Ser- 
vicio  Civil.  "Las  politicas  y  lmeas  action  de  la  Oficina  Nacional 
del  Servicio  Civil,  1985-1988,"  Revista  de  administration  pub lica 
uruguaya  [Montevideo],  4,  No.  10,  May  1989,  14-45. 

Weinstein,  Martin.  "Consolidating  Democracy  in  Uruguay:  The 
Sea  Change  of  the  1989  Elections."  (Working  Paper  Series,  4.) 
New  York:  Bildner  Center  for  Western  Hemisphere  Studies,  City 
University  of  New  York,  January  1990. 

 Uruguay:  Democracy  at  the  Crossroads.  Boulder,  Colorado: 

Westview  Press,  1988. 

 Uruguay:  The  Politics  of  Failure.  Westport,  Connecticut: 

Greenwood  Press,  1975. 

Weschler,  Lawrence.  "The  Great  Exception,  I-Liberty,"  New  York- 
er, 65,  April  3,  1989,  43-50,  67-85. 

 "The  Great  Exception,  Il-Impunity,"  New  Yorker,  65, 

April  10,  1989,  85-102,  105-8. 

 A  Miracle,  a  Universe:  Settling  Accounts  with  Torturers.  New 

York:  Pantheon  Books,  1990. 


269 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs,  1989.  (Ed.,  Richard  F. 
Staar.)  Stanford,  California:  Hoover  Institution  Press,  1989. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Busqueda  [Montevideo],  1986,  1988-89; 
Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report:  Latin  America, 
1985-90;  Latin  American  Weekly  Report  [London],  1989-90; 
Latinamerica  Press,  1987-90;  New  York  Times,  1989-90;  and  Washing- 
ton Post,  1989-90.) 


Chapter  5 

Andrade,  John.  World  Police  and  Paramilitary  Forces.  New  York:  Stock- 
ton Press,  1985. 

Blaustein,  Albert  P.,  and  Gisbert  H.  Flanz.  Constitutions  of  the  Coun- 
tries of  the  World.  Dobbs  Ferry,  New  York:  Oceana,  1982. 

Copley,  Gregory  R.  Defense  and  Foreign  Affairs  Handbook.  Washing- 
ton: Perth,  1987. 

Couhat,  Jean  Labayle  (ed.).  Combat  Fleets  of  the  World,  1988-89. 
Annapolis:  Naval  Institute  Press,  1988. 

Day,  Alan  J.  (ed.).  Political  Parties  of  the  World.  Chicago:  St.  James 
Press,  1988. 

DMS-Market  Intelligence  Reports:  Foreign  Military  Markets — Latin  America 
and  Australasia.  Alexandria,  Virginia:  Jane's  Information  Group, 
1989. 

English,  Adrian  J.  "Uruguay."  Pages  421-40  in  Adrian  J.  En- 
glish (ed.),  Armed  Forces  of  Latin  America:  Their  Histories,  Develop- 
ment, Present  Strength,  and  Military  Potential.  London:  Jane's,  1984. 

 "Uruguay."  Pages  262-71  in  Adrian  J.  English  (ed.), 

Regional  Defence  Profile,  No.  1:  Latin  America.  London:  Jane's,  1988. 

Gonzalez,  LuisE.  "Uruguay,  1980-1981:  An  Unexpected  Open- 
ing," Latin  American  Research  Review,  18,  No.  3,  1983,  63-76. 

Hobday,  Charles.  Communist  and  Marxist  Parties  of  the  World.  (Kees- 
ing's  Reference  Publications  Series.)  Burnt  Mill,  Harlow,  Es- 
sex, United  Kingdom:  Longman  Group,  1986. 

Hoskey,  James  L.  (ed.).  Lambert's  Worldwide  Directory  of  Defense 
Authorities  with  International  Defense  Organizations  and  Treaties. 
Washington:  Lambert,  1983. 

Ingleton,  Roy  D.  Police  of  the  World.  New  York:  Scribner's,  1979. 

International  Monetary  Fund.  Government  Finance  Statistics  Yearbook, 
1988.  Washington:  1988. 

 International  Financial  Statistics  Yearbook,  1989.  Washington: 

1989. 


270 


Bibliography 


Jane's  All  the  World's  Aircraft,  1989-90.  (Ed.,  John  W.R.  Taylor.) 

London:  Jane's,  1990. 
Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1989-90.  (Ed. ,  John  Moore.)  London:  Jane's, 

1989. 

Keegan,  John  (ed.).  World  Armies.  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1984. 
Kurian,  George  Thomas.  Encyclopedia  of  the  Third  World,  3.  (3d  ed.) 

New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1987. 
Lindahl,  Goran  G.  Uruguay's  New  Path:  A  Study  in  Politics  During 

the  First  Colegiado,  1919-33.  Stockholm:  Broderna  Lager strom, 

1962. 

The  Military  Balance,  1982-1983.  London:  International  Institute 

for  Strategic  Studies,  1982. 
The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990.  London:  International  Institute 

for  Strategic  Studies,  1989. 
Pendle,  George.  Uruguay.  (3d  ed.)  London:  Oxford  University 

Press,  1965.  Reprint.  Westport,  Connecticut:  Greenwood  Press, 

1985. 

Porzecanski,  Arturo  G.  Uruguay's  Tupamaros:  The  Urban  Guerrilla. 
New  York:  Praeger,  1973. 

Rama,  German  W.  La  democracia  en  Uruguay:  Una  perspectiva  de  in- 
terpretation. Buenos  Aires:  Grupo  Editor  Latinoamericano,  1987. 

Sivard,  Ruth  Leger.  World  Military  and  Social  Expenditures,  1989. 
Leesburg,  Virginia:  World  Priorities,  1989. 

Stockholm  International  Peace  Research  Institute.  SIPRI  Yearbook, 
1989:  World  Armaments  and  Disarmament.  Oxford:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1989. 

United  States.  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Mili- 
tary Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1988.  Washington:  1988. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1986.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  100th, 
1st  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations,  and  House 
of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1987. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1987.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  100th, 
2d  Session,  House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign 
Affairs,  and  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1988. 

 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1988.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  101st, 
1st  Session,  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations,  and  House 
of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign  Affairs.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1989. 


271 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


 Department  of  State.  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Prac- 
tices for  1989.  (Report  submitted  to  United  States  Congress,  101st, 
2d  Session,  House  of  Representatives,  Committee  on  Foreign 
Affairs,  and  Senate,  Committee  on  Foreign  Relations.)  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  February  1990. 

Uruguay.  Codigo  del proceso  penal  de  la  Republica  Oriental  del  Uruguay. 
Montevideo:  Fundacion  de  Cultura  Universitaria,  1985. 

 Codigo  penal  de  la  Republica  Oriental  del  Uruguay.  Montevideo: 

Fundacion  de  Cultura  Universitaria,  1986. 

 Constitution  de  la  Republica  del  Uruguay  y  actas  institucionales 

vigentes.  Montevideo:  Corporation  Grafica,  1980. 

Vanger,  Milton  I.  The  Model  Country:  Jose  Batlley  Ordonez  of  Uru- 
guay, 1907-1915.  Hanover,  New  Hampshire:  University  Press 
of  New  England,  1980. 

Weinstein,  Martin.  Uruguay:  Democracy  at  the  Crossroads.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1988. 

 Uruguay:  The  Politics  of  Failure.  Westport,  Connecticut: 

Greenwood  Press,  1975. 

Willis,  Jean  L.  Historical  Dictionary  of  Uruguay.  Metuchen,  New  Jer- 
sey: Scarecrow  Press,  1974. 

Wilson,  Carlos.  The  Tupamaros:  The  Unmentionables.  Boston:  Bran- 
den  Press,  1974. 

Yearbook  on  International  Communist  Affairs,  1989.  (Ed.,  Richard  F. 
Staar.)  Stanford,  California:  Hoover  Institution  Press,  1989. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Ser- 
vice, Daily  Report:  Latin  America;  Joint  Publications  Research  Service, 
Latin  America  Report;  Latin  American  Weekly  Report  [London];  Latin 
America  Regional  Reports:  Southern  Cone  [London];  and  Washington 
Post.) 


272 


Glossary 


ALADI  (Asociacion  Latinoamericana  de  Integration) — Latin 
American  Integration  Association.  Headquartered  in  Mon- 
tevideo, ALADI  was  established  in  August  1980  to  replace 
the  twenty-year-old  Latin  American  Free  Trade  Association 
(LAFTA).  ALADI' s  members  included  Argentina,  Bolivia, 
Brazil,  Chile,  Colombia,  Ecuador,  Mexico,  Paraguay,  Peru, 
Uruguay,  and  Venezuela.  Instead  of  uniform  tariff  cuts,  ALADI 
advocated  a  regional  tariff  preference  for  goods  originating  in 
member  states  and  tariffs  scaled  according  to  a  member  coun- 
try's level  of  economic  development:  most  developed,  intermedi- 
ate, or  least  developed. 

autonomous  entities  (entes  autonomos) — Autonomous  government 
agencies  or  state  enterprises  performing  various  industrial,  com- 
mercial, or  social  services.  The  constitution  stipulated  that  these 
bodies  were  to  have  a  degree  of  autonomy  or  decentralization 
as  established  by  laws  enacted  with  the  approval  of  an  absolute 
majority  of  the  full  membership  of  each  chamber  of  the  Gener- 
al Assembly.  They  were  administered  by  five-  to  seven-member 
boards  of  directors  or  directors  general.  Members  were  either 
elected  by  the  Senate  or  appointed  by  the  president  with  the 
consent  of  the  Senate.  The  degree  of  autonomy  or  decentrali- 
zation varied.  For  example,  the  constitution  stipulated  that 
postal,  customs,  port  authority,  and  public  health  services  were 
not  to  be  fully  decentralized,  but  rather  granted  only  as  much 
autonomy  as  was  compatible  with  control  by  the  executive.  The 
autonomous  agencies  could  be  divided  into  two  general  clas- 
sifications: the  first  was  concerned  with  education,  welfare,  and 
culture;  the  second,  with  industry  and  commerce.  In  the  first 
classification,  autonomous  agencies  supervised  the  University 
of  the  Republic  and  the  councils  for  secondary  and  elementary 
education,  as  well  as  the  training  for  teachers.  Others  were  con- 
cerned with  radio,  television,  the  theater,  housing,  welfare,  and 
social  security.  In  the  second  classification,  agencies  supervised 
the  waterworks,  fishing  industry,  ports,  national  merchant  ma- 
rine, and  production  of  petroleum  products,  cement,  alcoholic 
beverages,  and  electric  power.  In  the  commercial  field,  autono- 
mous agencies  supervised  the  Central  Bank  of  Uruguay,  the  So- 
cial Welfare  Bank,  the  State  Insurance  Bank,  and  the  Mortgage 
Bank. 


273 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


A  three-fifths  vote  of  the  full  membership  of  both  chambers 
of  the  General  Assembly  was  required  for  the  passage  of  a  law 
to  allow  the  admission  of  private  capital  in  the  organization 
or  expansion  of  the  assets  of  any  of  the  autonomous  entities, 
and  the  contribution  of  private  capital,  if  allowed,  was  never 
to  be  greater  than  that  of  the  national  government.  The  state 
could  also  participate  in  the  industrial,  agricultural,  or  com- 
mercial activities  of  enterprises  formed  by  workers'  coopera- 
tives, if  it  had  the  consent  of  the  enterprise.  The  autonomous 
entities  could  not  conduct  any  business  not  specifically  assigned 
to  them  by  law,  nor  could  they  expend  any  of  their  resources 
for  purposes  foreign  to  their  usual  activities, 
consumer  price  index  (CPI) — A  statistical  measure  of  sustained 
change  in  the  price  level  weighted  according  to  spending 
patterns. 

Enterprise  for  the  Americas  Initiative — A  plan  announced  by  Presi- 
dent George  H.W.  Bush  on  June  27,  1990,  calling  for  the  Unit- 
ed States  to  negotiate  agreements  with  selected  Latin  American 
countries  to  reduce  their  official  debt  to  the  United  States  and 
make  funds  available  through  this  restructuring  for  environ- 
mental programs;  to  stimulate  private  investment;  and  to  take 
steps  to  promote  extensive  trade  liberalization  with  the  goal 
of  establishing  free  trade  throughout  the  Western  Hemisphere. 

fiscal  year — Same  as  calendar  year. 

GATT  (General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade) — An  inter- 
governmental agency  related  to  the  United  Nations  and  head- 
quartered in  Geneva,  GATT  was  established  in  1948  as  a 
multilateral  treaty  with  the  aim  of  liberalizing  and  stabilizing 
world  trade.  GATT's  fundamental  principles  included  non- 
discriminatory trade  among  members,  protection  of  domestic 
trade  through  the  customs  tariff,  and  agreement  on  tariff  lev- 
els through  negotiations  among  the  contracting  parties.  The 
Uruguay  Round  of  major  multilateral  trade  negotiations,  the 
eighth  such  round  of  negotiations,  began  at  Punta  del  Este  in 
September  1986. 

GDP  (gross  domestic  product) — A  measure  of  the  total  value  of 
goods  and  services  produced  by  the  domestic  economy  during 
a  given  period,  usually  one  year.  Obtained  by  adding  the  value 
contributed  by  each  sector  of  the  economy  in  the  form  of  profits, 
compensation  to  employees,  and  depreciation  (consumption  of 
capital).  The  income  arising  from  investments  and  possessions 
owned  abroad  is  not  included.  Hence,  the  term  domestic  is  used 
to  distinguish  GDP  from  GNP  (q.v.). 


274 


Glossary 


GNP  (gross  national  product) — The  total  market  value  of  all  final 
goods  and  services  produced  by  an  economy  during  a  year. 
Obtained  by  adding  GDP  (q.  v. )  and  the  income  received  from 
abroad  by  residents,  less  payments  remitted  abroad  to  non- 
residents. 

IMF  (International  Monetary  Fund) — Established  along  with  the 
World  Bank  (q.v.)  in  1945,  the  IMF  is  a  specialized  agency 
affiliated  with  the  United  Nations  that  takes  responsibility  for 
stabilizing  international  exchange  rates  and  payments.  The 
main  business  of  the  IMF  is  the  provision  of  loans  to  its  mem- 
bers when  they  experience  balance  of  payments  difficulties. 
These  loans  often  carry  conditions  that  require  substantial  in- 
ternal economic  adjustments  by  the  recipients. 

import-substitution  industrialization — An  economic  development 
strategy  that  emphasizes  the  growth  of  domestic  industries,  often 
by  import  protection  using  tariff  and  nontariff  measures.  Propo- 
nents favor  the  export  of  industrial  goods  over  primary 
products. 

peso — The  traditional  unit  of  currency,  first  issued  in  1862. 
Replaced  by  the  Uruguayan  new  peso  (q.  v. )  in  1975  at  the  rate 
of  1,000  old  pesos  for  each  new  peso.  The  term  peso  is  often 
used  as  a  short  form  to  refer  to  the  Uruguayan  new  peso  in 
the  post- 1975  era. 

terms  of  trade — The  number  of  units  that  must  be  given  up  for 
one  unit  of  goods  by  each  party,  e.g. ,  nation,  to  a  transaction. 
The  terms  of  trade  are  said  to  move  in  favor  of  the  party  that 
gives  up  fewer  units  of  goods  than  it  did  previously  for  one  unit 
of  goods  received  and  against  the  party  that  gives  up  more  units 
of  goods  for  one  unit  of  goods  received.  In  international  eco- 
nomics, the  concept  of  ''terms  of  trade"  plays  an  important 
role  in  evaluating  exchange  relationships  between  nations. 

Uruguayan  new  peso  (N$Ur) — The  Uruguayan  unit  of  currency, 
consisting  of  100  centesimos.  Often  referred  to  in  short  form 
as  the  peso.  The  Uruguayan  new  peso  was  introduced  in  1975 
to  replace  the  old  peso  at  the  rate  of  1 ,000  old  pesos  for  each 
new  peso.  Since  1975  the  exchange  rate,  linked  to  the  United 
States  dollar,  has  been  frequently  adjusted,  with  the  value  of 
the  new  peso  declining.  The  average  exchange  rate  per  US$1 
was  N$Url01  in  1985;  N$Url52  in  1986;  N$Ur227  in  1987; 
N$Ur359  in  1988;  N$Ur606  in  1989;  and  N$Url,171  in  1990. 
So  extreme  has  the  devaluation  of  the  peso  been  that  in  1991 
Uruguayan  authorities  began  to  consider  introducing  another 
new  peso,  equal  in  value  to  1 ,000  units  of  the  existing  new  peso. 


275 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 

value-added  tax  (VAT) — An  incremental  tax  applied  to  the  value 
added  at  each  stage  of  the  processing  of  a  raw  material  or  the 
production  and  distribution  of  a  commodity.  It  is  calculated 
as  the  difference  between  the  product  value  at  a  given  stage 
and  the  cost  of  all  materials  and  services  purchased  as  inputs. 
The  VAT  is  a  form  of  indirect  taxation,  and  its  impact  on  the 
ultimate  consumer  is  the  same  as  that  of  a  sales  tax. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  the  International 
Development  Association  (IDA),  and  the  International  Finance 
Corporation  (IFC).  The  IBRD,  established  in  1945,  has  the 
primary  purpose  of  providing  loans  to  developing  countries  for 
productive  projects.  The  IDA,  a  legally  separate  loan  fund  ad- 
ministered by  the  staff  of  the  IBRD,  was  set  up  in  1960  to  fur- 
nish credits  to  the  poorest  of  developing  countries  on  much 
easier  terms  than  those  of  conventional  IBRD  loans.  The  IFC, 
founded  in  1956,  supplements  the  activities  of  the  IBRD 
through  loans  and  assistance  designed  specifically  to  encourage 
the  growth  of  productive  private  enterprises  in  less  developed 
countries.  To  participate  in  the  World  Bank  group,  member 
states  must  first  belong  to  the  IMF  (q.v.). 


276 


Index 


abortion,  78 
Accion,  34 

Accounts  Tribunal,  164-65,  170;  duties 
of,  164;  members  of,  164-65 

acquired  immune  deficiency  syndrome 
(AIDS),  82-83 

Act  of  Chapultepec,  192,  218 

Administracion  Nacional  de  Combusti- 
bles, Alcohol,  y  Portland.  See  National 
Administration  of  Fuels,  Alcohol,  and 
Portland  Cement 

Administracion  Nacional  de  Puertos.  See 
National  Administration  of  Ports 

Administracion  Nacional  de  Telecomu- 
nicaciones.  See  National  Telecommuni- 
cations Administration 

Administracion  Nacional  de  Usinas  y 
Transmisiones  Electricas.  See  Nation- 
al Administration  for  the  Generation 
and  Transmission  of  Electricity 

Advanced  Democracy  Party,  177 

Advance  Grouping,  26 

AEBU.  See  Uruguayan  Association  of 
Bank  Employees 

Africa:  immigrants  from,  65;  relations 
with,  197 

agricultural:  enterprises,  120;  expansion, 
35,  56;  exports,  124;  markets,  liberali- 
zation of,  44;  practices,  99;  reform,  10, 
24 

agricultural  production,  123-25;  of  citrus, 
125;  of  corn,  124-25;  decline  in,  112; 
labor  force  in,  120;  land  area  dedicat- 
ed to,  123;  increase  in,  119;  methods, 
118,  124;  as  percentage  of  gross  domes- 
tic product,  109,  118;  stagnation  in, 
118-19;  subsidies,  124;  of  wheat,  124 

agricultural  products:  citrus,  125;  corn, 
124-25;  as  inputs  to  manufacturing, 
118;  prices,  28;  rice,  124;  as  source  of 
foreign  exchange,  119;  wheat,  124 

agriculture,  118-27;  decline  of,  97;  effect 
of  erosion  on,  124;  and  industry,  link 
between,  109;  in  interior,  56-57;  labor 
force  in,  115;  land  tenure,  120;  land 
use,  119-20;  in  littoral,  57;  and  manu- 
facturing, relationship  between,  118; 
under  military  government,  45;  re- 


search and  development  in,  24 
Aguerrondo,  Mario,  40,  41 
Aguirre  Ramirez,  Gonzalo,  175,  182 
AIDS.  See  acquired  immune  deficiency 

syndrome 

air  force,  139,  209-10,  213,  221;  aircraft 
of,  208;  commands  of,  221;  equipment 
of,  204,  208,  209-10;  mission  of,  204; 
number  of  personnel  in,  221;  organi- 
zation of,  221;  origins  of,  209;  train- 
ing, 221 

Air  Force  Academy,  209,  221 

Air  Technical  School,  221 

ALADI.  See  Latin  American  Integration 
Association 

Alfonsin,  Raul,  146 

Algeria,  197 

Alliance  for  Progress,  39 
Allies,  192 

Alvarez  Armelino,  Gregorio,  xxix,  46, 

158,  189 
Amezaga,  Juan  Jose,  32 
Amezaga  administration,  33-34;  civil 

liberties  restored  under,  33 
amnesty:  for  military,  xxix-xxx,  179-80, 

186,  212,  226;  for  political  prisoners, 

158,  204;  for  Tupamaros,  92,  158,  177, 

189,  224 

Amnesty  International,  xxix,  43,  179-80 

amnesty  law,  179-80,  186,  212;  referen- 
dum on,  180 

ANCAP.  See  National  Administration  of 
Fuels,  Alcohol,  and  Portland  Cement 

ANDEBU.  See  National  Association  of 
Uruguayan  Broadcasters 

Animal  Welfare  Ecological  Green  Party 
(EE-PV),  176 

ANP.  See  National  Administration  of 
Ports 

ANR.  See  National  Republican  Asso- 
ciation 
Antarctica,  196 

ANTEL.  See  National  Telecommunica- 
tions Administration 
Aqut,  190 
Arce,  Liber,  40 
architecture,  59-60 

Argentina,  xxix,  11;  competition  with, 


277 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


xxxiii;  emigration  to,  69;  as  export 
market,  129,  145,  146;  in  Great  War, 
xxvi;  independence  from,  xxvi;  in- 
fluence of,  12,  14;  integration  with, 
197,  198;  invasions  by,  191;  military 
relations  with,  217;  relations  with,  192, 
195;  rivalry  of,  with  Brazil,  xxvi,  3, 
191;  tourists  from,  140;  trade  with, 
xxxii,  44;  in  Triple  Alliance,  xxvi- 
xxvii,  15,  207;  war  against  (1839-42), 
12 

Arias  de  Saavedra,  Hernando,  6 

Arismendi,  Rodney,  176 

armed  forces  {see  also  military),  42;  career 
in,  210;  civic  action  programs  of,  213; 
disaster-relief  assistance  by,  213;  doc- 
trine, xxx;  history  of,  204-8;  insignia, 
224;  number  of  personnel  in,  203;  oper- 
ational control  of,  216;  organic  law, 
211,  216-17;  president  as  commander 
in  chief  of,  xxx,  161,  216;  ranks, 
221-24;  recruitment  for,  214;  reserve, 
214;  service  commanders,  216-17; 
training  of,  by  United  States,  192;  uni- 
forms, 221 

army,  204-8,  209,  218-19;  Command 
and  Staff  School,  219;  corps  of,  219; 
deployment  of,  204;  early,  206;  equip- 
ment of,  204,  208;  ground  force  arms, 
219;  influence  of,  207;  intelligence,  217; 
Military  Aeronautics  Branch,  209; 
Military  Geographic  Service,  213;  mis- 
sion of,  218;  number  of  personnel  in, 
218;  officer  training,  219;  organization 
of,  204,  218-19;  politicization  of,  207; 
reduction  of,  207-8;  reorganization  of, 
207-8;  School  of  Arms  and  Services, 
219;  size  of,  207 

Army  Intelligence  Service,  210 

Artigas,  Jose  Gervasio,  3;  background  of, 
8;  death  of,  10;  exiled,  10;  military 
campaigns  of,  xxvi,  8-9,  204-6 

Artigas  Department,  56;  development  in, 
62;  drought  in,  124;  farm  workers  un- 
ion in,  74;  rainfall  in,  55;  ranches  in, 
119,  122;  temperatures  in,  55 

ASCEEP.  See  Students'  Social  and  Cul- 
tural Association  for  Public  Education 

Asociacion  de  Empleados  Bancarios  del 
Uruguay.  See  Uruguayan  Association 
of  Bank  Employees 

Asociacion  Latinoamericana  de  Integra- 
tion. See  Latin  American  Integration 


Association 

Asociacion  Nacional  de  Broadcasters 
Uruguayos.  See  National  Association  of 
Uruguayan  Broadcasters 

Asociacion  Nacional  Republicana.  See 
National  Republican  Association 

Asociacion  Rural.  See  Rural  Association 

Asociacion  Social  y  Cultural  de  Estudi- 
antes  de  la  Ensenanza  Publica.  See  Stu- 
dents' Social  and  Cultural  Association 
for  Public  Education 

Association  of  Newspapers  of  Uruguay, 
190 

Association  of  Professors  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  the  Republic,  73 
Atlantic  Ocean,  xxiv 
Atlantida,  60 

Australia:  emigration  to,  69 
autonomous  agencies.  See  autonomous  en- 
tities 

autonomous  entities,  25,  104,  129-30, 
169;  decrease  in  spending  by,  113;  ef- 
fect of,  on  economy,  104;  employment 
in,  115;  largest,  129;  as  percentage  of 
gross  domestic  product,  107;  privatiza- 
tion of,  xxxiv;  role  of,  in  government 
administration,  161-62;  under  San- 
guinetti,  130 

Axis,  192 

Ayui,  9 

Azucitrus  citrus  plant,  130 


Bahrain,  197 

balance  of  payments,  28,  106,  112, 
145-46 

balance  of  trade,  98,  142,  144,  145;  un- 
der military  government,  108-9;  posi- 
tive, 102 

Baldomir,  Alfredo,  31,  192;  political  free- 
dom restored  under,  32 

Baldomir  administration,  32;  neutrality 
of,  in  World  War  II,  32 

Banco  Comercial.  See  Commercial  Bank 

Banco  de  la  Republica  Oriental  del  Uru- 
guay. See  Bank  of  Uruguay 

Banco  de  Seguros  del  Estado.  See  State  In- 
surance Bank 

Banco  Hipotecario  del  Uruguay.  See 
Mortgage  Bank  of  Uruguay 

Banda  Oriental,  xxv,  xxvi,  3,  8,  204;  an- 
nexed by  Brazil,  10 


278 


Index 


banking  crisis,  38,  45,  123,  134;  govern- 
ment intervention  in,  45,  135 

banking  system,  20-21,  110,  132,  134-36; 
control  by,  of  foreign  currency  sales, 
30;  effect  of  Great  Depression  on,  28; 
foreign  influence  in,  71;  money  laun- 
dering in,  xxxi-xxxii,  136,  226;  net 
worth  of,  135;  offshore  transactions, 
xxxi,  136;  regulations  on,  xxxi;  secre- 
cy laws  in,  xxxi 

Bank  of  Uruguay  (BROU),  21,  59,  134; 
in  banking  crisis,  135;  foreign  curren- 
cy sales  under,  35;  foreign  exchange 
under,  28;  gold  reserves  of,  34;  nation- 
alized, 22-24;  state  control  of,  110 

banks:  commercial,  134;  deregulation  of, 
108,  134;  dollarization  of,  98,  114,  123, 
134-35;  foreign,  44;  internationaliza- 
tion of,  136;  problems  in,  109;  savings, 
134 

barbed  wire,  18,  56,  102 
Barran  National  Party,  175 
Barrios  Tassano,  Luis  A.,  193 
Basques,  16 

Batalla,  Hugo,  47,  176,  177,  178 
Batlle,  Cesar,  34 
Batlle,  Lorenzo,  34 

Batlle  Berres,  Luis,  5,  34,  41,  180;  agen- 
da of,  34-35;  cooperation  of,  with  Her- 
rera,  35;  death  of,  38;  industrial  policies 
of,  128 

Batlle  Ibanez,  Jorge,  xxiv,  41,  44,  174, 
175,  180-82;  background  of,  180;  cam- 
paign of,  180-81 
Batlle  y  Grau,  Lorenzo,  17,  19,  21,  180 
Batlle  y  Ordonez,  Jose,  4,  19,  34,  103, 
180;  collegial  executive  proposed  by, 
154;  coparticipation  proposed  by,  156; 
death  of,  27 
Batlle  y  Ordonez  administration,  4, 
21-26;  capital  punishment  abolished 
under,  159;  foreign  policy  under,  191; 
labor  legislation  under,  104,  115;  po- 
litical clashes  under,  207;  secularization 
under,  91;  social  reform  under,  xxvii, 
22,  24-26,  27,  103,  104;  state  control 
of  economy  under,  104 
Batllism,  103-4,  115;  legacy  of,  107 
Batllismo  Unido.  See  United  Batllism 
Batllist  Reaffirmation  Movement  (MRB), 
174 

Batllists,  31,  32,  174 
Battle  of  Carpinteria,  12 


Battle  of  Las  Piedras,  8-9 

Battle  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata,  32,  208 

Baygorria  Dam,  132 

beef  (see  also  meat-processing  industry), 
56;  prices,  122,  123,  134;  production 
of,  105,  122;  salting  enterprises,  12, 
102;  subsidies  for,  in  European  Com- 
munity, 107,  109,  119 

beef  exports,  xxv,  xxviii,  12,  56,  63,  97, 
99-100,  104;  attempts  to  revitalize, 
113;  decline  in,  119 

Berreta,  Tomas,  34 

Berro,  Bernardo,  16-17 

Biological  Weapons  Convention,  218 

birth  control,  66;  practice  of,  78 

birth  rate,  65-66;  in  rural  areas,  78 

Blanco  Acevedo,  Eduardo,  31 

Blancos.  See  National  Party 

Blandengues  Corps,  8 

Bohane  people,  6 

Boisso  Lanza  Pact,  42 

Bolivia:  economic  integration  with, 
146-47,  198 

Bonaparte,  Joseph,  8 

Bonaparte,  Napoleon,  8 

Bond  International  Gold,  131 

Borda,  Juan  Idiarte,  19;  assassinated,  20 

Bordaberry,  Juan  Domingo  R.,  36 

Bordaberry  Arocena,  Juan  Maria,  xxviii- 
xxix,  5,  36,  41;  resignation  of,  xxix, 
43 

Bordaberry  administration,  189;  destruc- 
tion of  Tupamaros  under,  210;  econom- 
ic policies  of,  5,  41 ;  military  takeover  of, 
203,  211;  repression  under,  5,  43 

borders,  14 

Botswana,  197 

Brady,  Nicolas,  144 

Brady  Plan,  144,  198 

Braga,  Enrique,  183 

Brazil,  xxix,  11;  annexation  of  Banda 
Oriental  by,  10;  competition  from, 
xxxii,  xxxiii;  emigration  to,  69;  as  ex- 
port market,  129,  145,  146;  in  Great 
War,  xxvi;  immigration  from,  15;  in- 
fluence of,  12;  integration  with,  197, 
198;  intervention  of,  14-15;  invasions 
by,  191;  military  relations  with,  217; 
relations  with,  192,  195,  196;  rivalry  of, 
with  Argentina,  xxvi,  3,  191;  tourists 
from,  140;  trade  with,  xxxii,  16;  treaties 
with,  14;  in  Triple  Alliance,  xxvi-xxvii, 
15,  207;  war  with,  3 


279 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Britain:  control  of  public  services  by,  18, 
30,  35;  debt  rescheduling  with,  30;  en- 
terprises of,  35;  immigration  from,  15, 
102;  influence  of,  191;  intervention  of, 
in  Great  War,  xxvi,  13-14,  206;  inva- 
sion of  Uruguay  by,  xxv,  8;  investment 
by,  24;  loans  from,  18;  occupation  of 
Montevideo  by,  xxv-xxvi;  relations 
with,  31,  35,  192;  in  South  Atlantic 
War,  195;  trade  with,  28 

Brito,  Mariano,  183 

Broad  Front,  xxix,  xxx,  xxxv,  32,  40,  43, 
44,  47,  151,  152,  172,  174,  176-78, 
187;  communist  sector,  177;  constit- 
uency of,  176;  factions  in,  176,  177; 
formation  of,  92,  178;  in  1989  election, 
182;  opposition  of,  to  amnesty  for  mili- 
tary leaders,  180;  opposition  of,  to  Mer- 
cosur, xxxiii;  organization  of,  178; 
organs  of,  190;  oudawed,  176;  platform 
of,  176 

Broad  Front  Unity  Faction  (CUFO),  1 78 

BROU.  See  Bank  of  Uruguay 

Brum,  Baltasar,  26,  29 

BU.  See  United  Batllism 

budget  deficit,  xxiii,  xxxv,  28,  80,  97, 
111-12;  Bank  of  Uruguay's  role  in, 
135;  inflationary  means  of  financing, 
143;  after  Korean  War,  111;  under 
military  regime,  108;  as  percentage  of 
gross  domestic  product,  113 

Buenos  Aires:  migration  to,  68;  rivalry 
of,  with  Montevideo,  3,  7 

Bush,  George  H.W.,  xxxii,  198 

Busqueda,  xxiv,  xxx,  182,  186;  circulation 
of,  189-90;  editorial  policy  of,  189 

Cabot,  Sebastian,  6 
Campisteguy,  Juan,  26 
Canal  Zone,  198 

Canelones  Department,  60,  209;  develop- 
ment in,  62;  farming  in,  119-20;  liv- 
ing standards  in,  74;  population  of,  57, 
66 

capital  punishment,  25;  abolished,  159 
Capitan  Curbelo  Airport,  139 
Caraballeda  Declaration,  194 
Carnelli,  Lorenzo,  26 
Carrasco  Air  Base,  221 
Carrasco  International  Airport,  59,  139 
Cartagena  Consensus,  194,  195 
Carter,  Jimmy,  193,  216 


Castro  Ruz,  Fidel,  194 
Cat,  Carlos,  188 
Catalan  people,  6 
Catholic  Action,  188 
Catholic  Church,  Roman,  188 
Catholic  Family  Movement,  188 
Catholicism,  Roman  (see  also  church-state 
conflict;  church-state  separation),  91, 
159;  influence  of,  66,  77;  as  official 
religion,  11;  restrictions  on,  20,  77 
Catholics:  political  parties  of,  92,  188; 

practicing,  188 
Catholic  University  of  Uruguay,  87,  89, 
188 

Catholic  Workers'  Circle,  188 

cattle,  xxv;  economic  importance  of,  12, 

16;  introduction  of,  from  Europe,  6, 

100;  methods  of  raising,  100-101; 

number  of,  120,  123;  production,  102; 

as  source  of  wealth,  3 
cattle  industry:  beef,  56;  dairy,  56,  57, 

123;  effect  of  Great  Depression  on,  28; 

effect  of  Great  War  on,  14 
cattle  ranchers,  28 
cattle  ranches,  56,  63 
caudillos,  11,  206;  patronage  by,  72 
CBI.  See  Independent  Batllist  Faction 
cemeteries,  17,  91 
census  of  1985,  57-58 
Center  of  Information  and  Studies  of 

Uruguay  (CIESU),  90-91 
Central  Bank  of  Uruguay,  39,  59,  112, 

123,  134,  144,  161 
Centro  de  Informaciones  y  Estudios  del 

Uruguay.  See  Center  of  Information 

and  Studies  of  Uruguay 
Centro  de  Investigaciones  Economicas. 

See  Economic  Research  Center 
Centro  Interdisciplinary  de  Estudios  del 

Desarrollo,  Uruguay.  See  Interdiscipli- 
nary Center  of  Development  Studies, 

Uruguay 

Centro  Latinoamericano  de  Economia 
Humana.  See  Latin  American  Center 
for  Human  Economy 

Cerro  Largo  Department,  56;  develop- 
ment in,  62;  ranches  in,  119,  122 

Cersosimo,  Pedro  W.,  175 

Chamber  of  Commerce,  71 

Chamber  of  Industry,  71 

Chamber  of  Representatives,  29,  153, 
182,  212;  distribution  of  seats  in,  173; 
members  of,  162 


280 


Index 


Chamber  of  Senators.  See  Senate 
Chana  people,  6 
Charlone,  Cesar,  39 
Charrua  people,  xxv,  6 
Chiarino,  Juan  Vicente,  179 
children,  79 

Chile:  integration  with,  198;  tourists 
from,  141 

China:  relations  with,  193,  196-97;  San- 
guinetti's  visit  to,  152,  196-97 

Christian  Democratic  Party  (PDC),  38, 
90,  92,  176-77,  178,  190;  organs  of,  190 

Christian  Democratic  Youth  Movement, 
188 

church-state  conflict  {see  also  secularism), 
17,  22 

church- state  separation,  25,  91,  154 
CIEDUR.  See  Interdisciplinary  Center  of 

Development  Studies,  Uruguay 
CIESU.  See  Center  of  Information  and 

Studies  of  Uruguay 
Ciganda,  Humberto,  178,  179 
CINVE.  See  Economic  Research  Center 
Cisplatine  Province,  xxvi,  10 
citizens'  rights,  25 

Civic  Union  (UC),  46,  47,  151,  178; 

formed,  178 
Civic  Union  of  Uruguay  (UCU),  22,  92, 
178;  opposition  of,  to  amnesty  for  mili- 
tary leaders,  180 
civil  liberties:  repression  of,  5,  43;  restored 
under  Amezaga,  33;  suspended,  40,  42 
Civil  Register,  19,  170,  171,  172 
civil  rights,  204;  of  women,  34 
civil  service,  168-69;  as  a  career,  168; 
number  of  workers  in,  169;  training  for, 
169 

CLAEH.  See  Latin  American  Center  for 

Human  Economy 
climate,  55-56;  rainfall,  55;  seasons,  55; 

temperature,    55;    weather,  55-56; 

winds,  56 
CNH.  See  Herrerist  National  Council 
CNT.   See  National  Convention  of 

Workers 
coastal  region,  60 

Co-Co  Pact.  See  Colorado-Communist 
Pact 

Code  of  Criminal  Procedure,  230 
Coincidencia   Nacional.    See  National 

Coincidence 
"co-habitation  arrangement."  See  Vaz- 
quez, Tabare 


colegiado.  See  collegial  executive 
collegial  executive  (see  also  National  Coun- 
cil of  Administration;  National  Coun- 
cil of  Government),  xxiii,  xxvii-xxviii, 
25,  28,  151;  conflicts  of,  with  president, 
155;  eliminated,  29,  39;  implemented, 
36,  154;  ineffectiveness  of,  156;  pro- 
posed, 154;  reestablished,  155 
Colonia,  57,  139,  147 
Colonia  del  Sacramento,  xxv,  7 
Colonia  Department,  57;  development  in, 

62;  farming  in,  119 
Colorado  and  Batllist  Union  (UCB),  39, 

155,  174,  182;  factions  of,  175 
Colorado-Communist  Pact,  187 
Colorado  Party  (Colorados),  xxix,  xxxiv, 
xxxv,  18,  19,  36,  37,  38,  39,  40,  41, 
46,  47,  63,  151,  152,  156,  158,  172, 
173,  190;  affiliation  with,  173;  and  am- 
nesty for  military  leaders,  180;  army  of, 
206;  clashes  of,  with  National  Party, 
207;  Colorado-Communist  Pact  signed 
by,  187;  division  in,  25,  31;  factions  of, 
173,  174;  income  redistribution  under, 
77;  jobs  dispensed  by,  107;  National 
Executive  Committee,  175;  in  1989 
election,  182;  origins  of,  4,  12;  platform 
of,  4,  173,  174,  181;  political  control 
by,  101-3;  profile  of  members  of,  xxvi, 
72;  purge  of,  44 
Colorado  Party  for  Tradition  (Sosism),  26 
Colorado  Party-General  Rivera  (River- 
ists),  25 

Comando  Juan  Antonio  Lavalleja.  See 

Juan  Antonio  Lavalleja  Command 
Comision  de  Productividad,  Precios,  e 

Ingresos.  See  Productivity,  Prices,  and 

Income  Commission 
Command  and  General  Staff  School,  221 
Command  and  Staff  School,  219 
Commercial  Bank,  134,  135;  sale  of,  xxxi 
commercial  sector,  115 
communications,  18,  19,  132,  140,  213; 

broadcast  facilities,  140 
communism,  177;  as  labor  ideology,  116 
Communist  Party  of  Uruguay  (PCU), 

xxx,  26,  31,  32,  116,  176;  allied  with 

Christian  Democrats,  92;  banned,  43; 

Colorado-Communist  Pact  signed  by, 

187 

compadrazgo,  78 

Conae.  See  National  Council  for  Edu- 
cation 


281 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Conapro.  See  National  Conciliatory 
Program 

Concertacion  Nacional  Programatica.  See 
National  Conciliatory  Program 

Confederation  of  State  Civil  Service  Or- 
ganizations, 73 

Consejo  de  Estado.  See  Council  of  State 

Consejo  de  la  Nacion.  See  Council  of  the 
Nation 

Consejo  de  Seguridad  Nacional.  See  Na- 
tional Security  Council 

Consejo  Nacional  de  Administracion.  See 
National  Council  of  Administration 

Consejo  Nacional  de  Education.  See  Na- 
tional Council  for  Education 

Consejo  Nacional  de  Gobierno.  See  Na- 
tional Council  of  Government 

Consejo  Nacional  Herrerista.  See  Her- 
rerist  National  Council 

constitutional  reform,  155 

constitution  of  1830,  11,  152,  153-54; 
courts  under,  154;  departments  under, 
154;  General  Assembly  under,  153; 
Neighbors'  Council  under,  154;  presi- 
dent under,  153;  violations  of,  154 

constitution  of  1917,  25,  152,  154-55;  col- 
legia! executive  under,  154;  copartici- 
pation  under,  154;  president  under, 
154;  separation  of  church  and  state  un- 
der, 154 

constitution  of  1934,  29,  152;  collegial  ex- 
ecutive under,  155;  Council  of  Min- 
isters under,  155;  Supreme  Court  of 
Justice  under,  155 

constitution  of  1942,  33,  155-56 

constitution  of  1952,  36,  152;  copartici- 
pation  under,  156 

constitution  of  1967,  39,  152,  156-59; 
amendment  procedure  for,  157;  copar- 
ticipation  under,  156;  education  under, 
159;  General  Assembly  under,  156; 
legislation  under,  156;  military  decrees 
amending,  157,  158;  new  text  for, 
158-59;  Permanent  Commission  un- 
der, 156;  president  under,  156,  228 

constitution  of  1980  (military):  rejected, 
xxix,  158,  203,  212 

Constitution  of  the  United  States,  9 

construction,  76,  130-31;  decline  in,  112; 
growth  of,  131 

Contadora  Support  Group  {see  also  Group 
of  Eight),  193 

Contentious- Administrative  Tribunal, 


164,  165;  duties  of,  165;  members  of, 
165 

Convention  Nacional  de  Trabaj adores. 
See  National  Convention  of  Workers 

Convention  against  Illicit  Traffic  in  Nar- 
cotic Drugs  and  Psychotropic  Sub- 
stances, 191 

coparticipation,  xxvii,  17,  33,  156, 
172-73;  ended,  21,  39;  initiated,  154, 
154;  mandated,  36 

Coprin.  See  Productivity,  Prices,  and  In- 
come Commission 

Corriente  Batllista  Independiente.  See  In- 
dependent Batllist  Faction 

Corriente  de  Unidad  Frentamplista.  See 
Broad  Front  Unity  Faction 

Corriente  Popular  Nacionalista.  See  Na- 
tionalist Popular  Faction 

Corriente  Renovadora.  See  Renewal 
Faction 

Corte  Suprema  de  Justicia.  See  Supreme 

Court  of  Justice 
Cosena.  See  National  Security  Council 
Cote  dTvoire,  197 

Council  of  Ministers,  155,  159;  duties  of, 

161-62;  members  of,  161-62 
Council  of  State,  32,  42,  43,  157,  211,  216 
Council  of  the  Nation,  157,  212,  216 
coup  d'etat:  of  1898,  20;  of  1933,  29,  155, 
208 

court  system  (see  also  under  individual  courts), 
165-68,  230;  appellate,  167;  justice  of 
the  peace,  168;  juvenile,  231;  military, 
214-15 

CPN.  See  Nationalist  Popular  Faction 
crime,  226 

criminal  justice,  204,  229-32 
criollos,  8,  64-65 
Crottogini,  Juan  Jose,  176 
Cuadernos  de  Marcha,  190 
Cuareim  culture,  6 

Cuba:  relations  with,  193,  194-95;  trade 
with,  16,  194;  visit  of  Vazquez  to,  xxxi 

Cuestas,  Juan  Lindolfo,  20 

CUFO.  See  Broad  Front  Unity  Faction 

currency:  collapse  of,  45;  convertibility  of, 
44;  devaluation  of,  28,  30,  39,  135; 
market,  114 

customs  laws,  18 

Customs  Regulations  Act  (1815),  10 


dairy  industry,  56,  57,  123 


282 


Index 


Daverede,  Julio,  179 

debt:  burden,  109;  crisis,  143;  domestic, 

98,  99;  foreign,  98,  111;  policy,  143; 

ratio  of,  to  gross  domestic  product,  143; 

service,  143-44,  145 
Declaration  of  Colonia,  196 
defense  industry,  216 
defense  spending,  215-16;  for  equipment, 

215;   as  percentage  of  government 

spending,  80,  215-16;  as  percentage  of 

gross  national  product,  216;  reduced, 

xxx,  203,  215 
Demichelli  Lizaso,  Alberto,  43 
Democratic  Blanco  Union  (UBD),  37,  38 
Democratic  Traditionalism  (Trademo), 

174 

departments  (see  also  under  individual  depart- 
ments), 11,  169-70 

development  plans:  five-year,  41;  ten- 
year,  39 

DGID.  See  General  Directorate  of  Defense 

Information 
DGSS.  See  General  Directorate  of  Social 

Security 
Diaz  de  Solfs,  Juan,  xxv,  6 
diplomatic  relations,  161 
Direccion  General  de  Information  de 

Defensa.  See  General  Directorate  of 

Defense  Information 
Direccion  General  de  Seguridad  Social.  See 

General  Directorate  of  Social  Security 
"directing  influence,"  19 
dissidents,  38 

Divisa  Blanca.  See  White  Emblem 
divorce,  22,  24-25;  grounds  for,  77-78; 

legalized,  91;  rate,  78 
Doctrine  of  National  Security,  43,  192 
dollar:  appreciation  of,  143;  decline  of, 

142 

domestic  goods,  103 

domestic  industries,  106;  market  for, 
xxxiv,  127,  128 

domestic  servants,  76,  78 

double  simultaneous  vote,  171 

drought,  effect  of:  on  agricultural  produc- 
tion, 124;  on  hydroelectric  generation, 
145;  on  livestock  production,  122 

drug  abuse,  82,  83,  226,  231 

drug  trafficking,  83,  136,  226,  231;  Unit- 
ed States  policy  on,  199,  209 

Dumas,  Alexandre,  13 

Durazno,  209 

Durazno  Air  Base,  221 


Durazno  Department,  56;  development 
in,  62;  ranches  in,  119,  122 


East  Germany.  See  German  Democratic 
Republic 

Echegoyen,  Martin  R.,  38 

economic:  austerity,  xxx,  xxxi,  xxxiii; 
growth,  99;  integration,  146-47,  193; 
reform,  25-26,  97;  stabilization,  112; 
stagnation,  xxviii,  xxxiv 

economic  development,  35,  51,  179;  in 
early  twentieth  century,  97;  in  interior 
region,  56 

economic  policies,  40,  111-14;  under  Bor- 
daberry,  5,  41;  under  Sanguinetti, 
112-13;  as  motivation  for  emigration, 
68;  military,  44,  45,  97,  112;  of  Nation- 
al Party,  5;  of  Pacheco,  5;  of  Vegh,  45, 
46 

Economic  Research  Center  (CINVE),  90 
economic  restructuring:  measures,  107-8; 

under  military  regime,  107-9;  results 

of,  108,  109 
Economist,  144 

economy,  12;  Batllist  legacy  for,  107;  in 
colonial  period,  100-101;  crisis  of  1890, 
20;  decline  of,  in  1950s,  36,  100;  for- 
eign involvement  in,  102;  free-market, 
38,  41;  government's  role  in,  97,  109, 
111;  informal  sector  of,  70,  74,  76;  in 
littoral  region,  57;  under  military  re- 
gime, 107-9;  postindependence,  101; 
stagnant,  69;  state  control  of,  104 

Economy  Institute,  105 

Ecuador,  198 

education  (see  also  under  type  of  school),  51 , 
86-91;  under  Colorados,  89-91;  com- 
pulsory, xxvii,  159;  of  elite,  70;  evolu- 
tion of,  88-89;  free  public,  xxvii,  xxviii, 
69,  72,  80,  159;  local  jurisdiction  over, 
170;  of  middle  class,  73,  78;  under  mili- 
tary rule,  89;  origins  of,  88-89;  poli- 
cy, 24;  primary,  86;  private,  70;  reform 
of,  4,  19,  89;  religious,  22;  secondary, 
39;  spending  on,  80-82,  89,  90;  of 
women,  78 

education  system,  86-88;  facilities  of,  86; 
purges  of,  88-89;  teachers  rehired  by, 
90;  under  Terra,  31 

EE-PV.  See  Animal  Welfare  Ecological 
Green  Party 

elderly:  poverty  among,  76 


283 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


El  Clarin,  xxxii 
El  Dia,  21,  34,  39 

election  of  1989,  xxx,  152,  180-82;  can- 
didates in,  181-82;  issues  in,  181 ;  out- 
come of,  182 

elections,  159;  campaign  funds  for,  172; 
of  1938,  31;  of  1971,  40-41;  of  1976, 
43;  of  1982,  46;  of  1984,  47;  schedule 
for,  171,  173;  suspended,  43;  tabula- 
tion of  results  of,  171 

Elections  Law,  20 

Electoral  Court,  26,  164,  165,  171,  180; 
duties  of,  165,  172;  members  of,  165 

electric  generation,  24,  131-32;  Paso  de 
los  Toros  Dam,  31,  131;  Salto  Grande 
Dam,  131-32 

electric  utility  company,  21,  22 

Elio,  Javier,  8,  9 

elite,  business,  71,  101 

elite,  political,  21,  71-72,  101;  back- 
grounds of,  72;  caudillos  in,  72;  occu- 
pations of,  72 

elite,  ranching,  70-71,  101;  education  of, 
70;  origins  of,  70 

Ellauri,  Jose,  17 

El  Palmar  Dam,  132 

El  Popular,  176 

El  Preciado,  xxxv 

Embalse  del  Rio  Negro,  31,  55 

emigration,  43,  65,  68-69;  destinations 
for,  65,  69;  effect  of,  on  population 
growth,  62,  66;  motivation  for,  68-69, 
88,  89,  188;  statistics,  68-69 

emigrants:  age  distribution  of,  68;  occu- 
pations of,  69;  return  of,  68,  69;  statis- 
tics, 68-69 

employment:  increase  in  rate  of,  98;  of 
middle  class,  72,  73;  moonlighting,  72; 
in  private  sector,  111;  in  public  sector, 
97;  of  women,  72 

Endara,  Guillermo,  198 

energy,  131-32;  consumption  of,  131; 
sources  of,  131 

Enterprise  for  the  Americas  Initiative, 
xxxii,  198 

Entre  Rios  Province,  Argentina,  14,  57 

ethnic  composition,  xxviii,  63,  64-65 

Eto-Ecologista — Partido  Verde.  See 
Animal  Welfare  Ecological  Green  Party 

Europe:  emigration  to,  69;  immigration 
from,  27;  trade  with,  16 

European  Community:  beef  subsidies  in, 
107,  109,  119;  as  export  market,  145 


exchange-rate  policies,  70,  108,  113-14 

executive  (see  also  collegial  executive; 
president),  159-62;  duties  of,  161;  pow- 
ers of,  161 

export:  economy,  105;  markets,  129,  145, 
146;  policy,  119;  sector,  107,  113 

export  earners,  60;  beef,  63,  99-100; 
hides,  100;  mutton,  99-100;  wool,  63, 
99-100 

export  earnings:  effect  of,  on  labor,  104; 
during  Great  Depression,  10;  stagna- 
tion of,  111 

exporters:  effect  of  Great  Depression  on, 
28 

export  model:  success  of,  104;  in  World 

War  II,  105 
export-oriented  growth,  107 
export-promotion  strategy,  114 
exports,  xxv,  xxviii,  142;  decline  in  earn- 
ings from,  100,  106,  143;  diversifica- 
tion of,  99;  emphasis  on,  98,  109, 
128-29;  growth  of,  108;  in  Korean 
War,  105;  nontraditional,  145;  subsi- 
dized, 108;  value  of,  104;  volume  of, 
102 

external  trade:  issues,  194;  regulation  of, 
9-10 


Falkland  Islands  (Islas  Malvinas),  195 
family:  life,  77-80;  ties,  78,  79 
farmers,  74 

Federacion  de  Estudiantes  Universitarios 
del  Uruguay.  See  Federation  of  Uru- 
guayan University  Students 

Federacion  Rural.  See  Rural  Federation 

federalism:  versus  unitary  rule,  4 

Federal  League,  9 

Federal  League  for  Rural  Action  (LFAR), 
36,  37,  71 

Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Ger- 
many): relations  with,  190 

Federation  of  Uruguayan  Sanitation 
Workers,  73 

Federation  of  Uruguayan  University  Stu- 
dents (FEUU),  189 

Ferdinand  VII,  8 

Fernandez  Faingold,  Hugo,  174,  182 
Ferreira  Aldunate,  Wilson,  40,  41,  44,  47, 

151,  175,  179 
fertility,  66 

FEUU.  See  Federation  of  Uruguayan 


284 


Index 


University  Students 

Fidel.  See  Leftist  Liberty  Front 

Figari,  Pedro,  65 

financial  markets,  108 

financial  sector,  xxiv,  45,  134-36 

Finch,  M.H.J. ,  128 

fishing,  125-26;  exports,  126;  fleet,  125; 
as  percentage  of  gross  domestic  prod- 
uct, 109;  production,  126 

fish-processing  industry,  126 

Flores,  Venancio,  15,  17 

Flores  Department,  56;  development  in, 
62;  ranches  in,  119 

Flores  Silva,  Manuel,  174 

Florida  Department,  56;  development  in, 
62;  farming  in,  119-20 

Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the 
United  Nations,  126 

foreign  debt,  xxix,  31,  97,  107,  108,  141, 
142-44,  178,  181;  Latin  American  strat- 
egy for,  193;  as  percentage  of  gross  do- 
mestic product,  142;  renegotiation  of, 
194,  198 

foreign  economic  relations,  141;  with 
United  States,  xxxii,  141 

foreign  exchange,  xxxi,  37,  142;  agricul- 
tural production  as  source  of,  119; 
liberalization  of,  108;  sales  of,  28;  wool 
production  as  a  source  of,  122 

foreign  policy:  under  Batlle  y  Ordonez, 
191;  influences  on,  191;  under  Lacalle, 
197-99;  under  Terra,  31 

Foreign  Service  Law,  197 

forestry,  126-27 

forests,  56,  119;  land  area  of,  126 
For  the  Fatherland  (PLP),  40,  175,  182; 

and  amnesty  for  military  leaders,  180 
France,  xxviii;  immigration  from,  16, 
102;  influence  of,  191;  intervention  of, 
in  Great  War,  xxvi,  13-14,  206;  mate- 
riel acquired  from,  209,  215;  military 
cooperation  with,  208;  support  of, 
against  Argentina,  12 
Franciscans,  xxv 
Fray  Bentos,  16,  57,  139 
Freedom  and  Change,  174 
Freemasons,  17 
free-trade  zones,  xxiv,  147 
Frente  Amplio.  See  Broad  Front 
Frente  Izquierda  de  Libertad.  See  Leftist 

Liberty  Front 
Friedrich  Ebert  Foundation,  190 
Friedrich  Naumann  Foundation,  190 


Frigonal.  See  National  Refrigerating 
Frigorffico  Nacional.  See  National  Re- 
frigerating 
Frugoni,  Emilio,  176 
full-stop  law.  See  amnesty  law 
Fuerte  de  San  Jose,  7 
fusion,  xxvi,  16 


Gabriel  Terra  Dam,  132 

Garibaldi,  Giuseppe,  xxvi,  13 

GATT.  See  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs 

and  Trade 
gauchos,  xxv,  3 

GDP.  See  gross  domestic  product 
General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade 

(GATT),  191 ;  Uruguay  Round  of,  xxxi, 

193 

General  Artigas  Bridge,  57 
General  Artigas  Military  Airport,  221 
General  Assembly,  5,  17,  37,  42,  155, 
159;  campaign  funds  allocated  by, 
172;  civil  liberties  suspended  by,  40; 
under  constitution  of  1967,  156;  dis- 
solved by  Baldomir,  32;  dissolved  by 
military  government,  xxix,  44,  157, 
211;  duties  of,  162-64;  elections  for, 
162,  171-72;  election  of  judges  by, 
164-65,  166;  executive  influence  in,  19; 
legislation  in,  164;  members  of,  162; 
powers  of,  153,  162-64;  restored,  33, 
212 

General  Confederation  of  Labor,  37 

General  Confederation  of  Uruguayan 
Workers,  27 

General  Coordinating  Commission,  196 

General  Directorate  of  Defense  Informa- 
tion (DGID),  217 

General  Directorate  of  Social  Security 
(DGSS),  85 

General  Directorate  of  Statistics  and  Cen- 
sus, xxxiv,  66,  68,  77 

General  Union  of  Workers  (UGT),  37 

geography,  52-62;  hydrography,  52-55; 
topography,  52 

Geopolitica  do  Brasil  (Golbery  do  Couto  e 
Silva),  43 

George,  Henry,  24 

German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Ger- 
many): relations  with,  196 
Germany,  31,  32,  192 
Gestido,  Oscar,  39 


285 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Gillespie,  Charles  Guy,  xxiii 

Giro,  Juan  Francisco,  16 

"Girondists  of  73,"  17 

GNP.  See  gross  national  product 

Golbery  do  Couto  e  Silva,  Artur,  43 

gold  reserves,  xxix,  34,  146 

gold  standard,  18 

Gorbachev,  Mikhail  S.,  196 

government,  civil:  control  of  military  by, 
203;  and  labor,  relationship  between, 
115-17,  118;  reduction  of  spending  by, 
112;  restoration  of,  117,  151,  212;  role 
of,  in  economy,  97,  109,  111;  role  of, 
in  labor  policy,  115 

government,  local,  169-70;  administra- 
tion of,  169;  departmental  board,  169, 
170;  governor  of,  169,  170;  mayor  of, 
169-70;  powers  of,  169 

government,  military,  xxiii,  17-18,  107; 
balance  of  trade  under,  108-9;  bank- 
ing under,  134;  civil  service  abolished 
by,  xxix,  168;  crimes  committed  by, 
xxix-xxx;  diplomacy  under,  192;  eco- 
nomic policies  of,  44,  97,  112;  ended, 
xxix;  export  policies  of,  119,  128-29; 
human  rights  abuses  by,  186,  203;  in- 
itiation of,  xxviii-xxix,  211;  interest 
groups  banned  by,  189;  judiciary  un- 
der, 166;  labor  under,  116-17;  person- 
nel assignments  under,  211;  political 
repression  under,  211;  torture  under, 
211 

government  structure,  159-70;  executive, 
159-62;  judiciary,  165-68;  legislature, 
162-65;  public  administration,  168-69; 
succession  in,  162 

GrqfSpee,  32 

Grauert,  Julio  Cesar,  26,  29 

Great  Depression,  xxviii,  28,  100,  111; 

exports  during,  105;  industry  during, 

128 

Great  War  (1843-52),  xxvi,  13-14;  Ar- 
gentina in,  xxvi;  effect  of,  on  cattle  in- 
dustry, 14;  governments  in,  13; 
international  intervention  in,  13-14 

Grito  de  Asencio  Integration  Movement, 
177 

Gros  Espiell,  Hector,  183,  197 
gross  domestic  product  (GDP),  xxiii,  51; 
agricultural  production  as  percentage 
of,  109,  118;  autonomous  entities  as 
percentage  of,  107;  budget  deficit  as 
percentage  of,  113;  decline  in,  112; 


defense  spending  as  percentage  of,  216; 
fishing  as  percentage  of,  109;  foreign 
debt  as  percentage  of,  142;  growth  of, 
xxx,  45,  98,  108,  109,  110;  health  care 
spending  as  percentage  of,  80;  indus- 
trial output  as  percentage  of,  106,  109, 
127,  128;  livestock  raising  as  percen- 
tage of,  106,  109;  in  1990,  97;  ratio  of 
debt  to,  143;  service  sector  as  percen- 
tage of,  110,  132 
gross  national  product  (GNP),  37,  216 
Group  of  Eight  (see  also  Contadora  Sup- 
port Group;  Group  of  Rio),  193,  194, 
198 

Group  of  Rio,  198 
Group  of  Seven,  198 
Guarani  people,  xxv 
Guerra  Grande.  See  Great  War 
Gutierrez  Ruiz,  Hector,  43 


Haedo,  Eduardo  Victor,  38 
Hail  Mary,  188 

Hanns-Seidel  Foundation,  190 
HDI.  See  Human  Development  Index 
health  care:  causes  of  death,  82;  coverage, 

80;  distribution  of,  82;  facilities,  80,  82, 

83;  immunizations,  84;  private,  80; 

public,  72,  80,  83-84;  spending  on,  80, 

84 

health  plans,  83-84 

Herrera,  Juan  Jose  de,  180 

Herrera,  Luis  Alberto  de,  25,  27,  36,  37, 
151,  155;  and  coup  of  1933,  29;  cooper- 
ation of  Batile  Berres  with,  35;  death 
of,  37;  opposition  of,  to  United  States 
bases,  32 

Herrera  y  Obes,  Julio,  19 

Herrerist  Movement,  175 

Herrerist  National  Council  (CNH),  175 

Herrerists,  32,  38,  40,  41,  42,  155 

highways.  See  roads 

Honorary  Commission  for  Imports  and 

Exchange,  30 
horses:  introduction  of,  from  Europe,  6, 

100 

hospitals:  military,  83;  public,  24,  80,  83 
household  composition,  78 
housing,  59-60 
Hudson,  W.H.,  xxv 
Human  Development  Index  (HDI),  xxiii, 
51-52 


286 


Index 


human  rights,  47,  48,  204;  groups,  225- 
26;  violations  by  military,  179,  186, 
193,  203,  216,  226 

hydroelectricity,  131-32,  145 

hydrography,  52-55 


IADB.  See  Inter- American  Defense  Board 
IDB.  See  Inter- American  Development 
Bank 

Iglesias,  Enrique,  193,  194 

IMET.  See  International  Military  Educa- 
tion and  Training 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 

immigration,  15-16,  20,  24,  27,  51;  from 
Africa,  65;  from  Brazil,  15;  from  Brit- 
ain, 15,  102;  effect  of,  xxvii;  effect  of, 
on  ethnic  composition,  64;  effect  of,  on 
Montevideo,  102-3;  from  Europe,  27; 
from  France,  16,  102;  from  Italy,  xxvii, 
15,  51,  65,  102;  from  Lebanon,  27;  as 
source  of  labor,  106;  from  Spain,  xxvii, 
15,  16,  51,  102;  from  Syria,  27 

impeachment,  162-64 

imports:  decline  in,  106;  effect  of  Great 
Depression  on,  28;  industrial,  145; 
limitations  on,  30;  sources  of,  145 

import- substitution  industrialization,  35, 
37,  71,  106,  111,  119,  128;  shortcom- 
ings of,  106 

import  tariffs,  103;  reduction  of,  108 

Imprensa  Nacional.  See  National  Printing 
Press 

income  distribution,  76-77,  97,  99,  106 
independence,  152;  declared,  11,  206; 

movement,  3,  8-11,  204-6 
Independent  Batllist  Faction  (CBI),  174 
Independent  Nationalists,  31,  32,  37 
India,  197 

Indians  (see  also  under  names  of  individual  peo- 
ples), 10;  genocide  of,  6,  65,  206; 
resistance  by,  to  European  invaders,  3, 
91 

industrial  development,  18;  under 
Amezaga,  33;  background  of,  128-29; 
under  Batlle  Berres,  128;  under  Batlle 
y  Ordonez,  105-6;  effect  of  Great 
Depression  on,  28,  128 

industrial  growth:  stagnation  of,  106 

industrial  imports,  145 

industrialists,  22 

industrial  output,  128;  as  percentage  of 


gross  domestic  product,  106,  109,  127, 
128 

industry,  xxiii,  127-32;  and  agriculture, 
link  between,  109;  domestic  consuma- 
bles, 99;  growth  of,  129;  labor  force  in, 
74,  115;  under  military  government, 
45,  108;  problems  in,  109;  protectionist 
policy  for,  24,  127-28;  state  control  of, 
27;  Terra's  support  for,  30 

INET.  See  National  Institute  of  Techni- 
cal Education 

infant  mortality,  82 

inflation,  xxiii,  80,  143;  attempts  to 
reduce,  99,  113,  117;  factors  in,  108; 
increasing,  106,  107,  114;  in  1950s,  37; 
in  1960s,  38,  39,  107;  in  1970s,  45,  107, 
108;  in  1980s,  xxix,  xxx,  98,  109,  110, 
112,  113;  in  1990s,  xxxiv 

infrastructure:  development  of  regional, 
147;  modernization  of,  131 

Institute  for  the  Scientific  Nutrition  of  the 
People,  31 

Institute  of  Social  Sciences,  89 

Institutional  Act  No.  1,  43 

Instituto  de  Economia.  See  Economy  In- 
stitute 

Instituto  Nacional  de  Educacion  Tecni- 
ca.  See  National  Institute  of  Technical 
Education 
"Instructions  of  the  Year  Thirteen,"  9 
insurance  companies,  110;  privatization 
of,  xxxi 

Integration  Movement  (MI),  178 
intellectuals,  38 

Intelsat.  See  International  Telecommuni- 
cations Satellite  Organization 

Inter-American  Defense  Board  (IADB), 
192,  218 

Inter-American  Development  Bank 
(IDB),  193;  loans  from,  136 

Inter- American  Foundation,  90 

Inter- American  Treaty  of  Reciprocal  As- 
sistance (Rio  Treaty),  191,  192,  218 

Interdisciplinary  Center  of  Development 
Studies,  Uruguay  (CIEDUR),  91 

interest  groups,  73,  183-90 

interest  rates,  142-43 

Interior  Police,  228 

interior  region,  56-57;  agriculture  in, 
56-57;  departments  in,  56;  develop- 
ment in,  56-57;  industry  in,  56 
International  Development  Agency,  90 
international  meetings,  xxxi,  193 


287 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


International  Military  Education  and 
Training  (IMET),  216 

International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF), 
xxxiv,  5,  39,  112,  143 

International  Telecommunications  Satel- 
lite Organization  (Intelsat),  140,  191 

international  trade,  144-45 

Interunion  Workers'  Assembly  (or  Ple- 
num) (PIT),  46,  76,  187 

investment:  decline  in,  111,  112;  domes- 
tic, 97;  foreign,  24;  growth  of,  108; 
public,  111,  130;  by  ranchers,  105,  106 

Iraq,  xxxii,  198 

Israel:  emigration  to,  65 

Italy:  immigration  from,  xxvii,  15,  51, 
65,  102;  intervention  of,  in  Great  War, 
13,  206;  relations  with,  31 

Jackson,  Geoffrey,  40 

Jesuits,  xxv,  17 

Jews,  65,  92 

John  XXIII  (Pope),  92 

Juan  Antonio  Lavalleja  Command,  xxxv 

judges:  appointment  of,  164,  166;  of  first 
instance,  167-68;  justices  of  the  peace, 
168;  lawyer  judges,  167;  requirements 
for,  166;  terms  of,  166 

judicial  system,  229-30;  inmates  under, 
231;  suggested  changes  to,  230;  sus- 
pects under,  230;  trials  under,  230 

judiciary  (see  also  under  individual  courts), 
165-68;  courts  of,  165,  167;  under  mili- 
tary government,  166;  public  defenders 
in,  168 

Konrad  Adenauer  Foundation,  190 
Korean  War:  exports  during,  xxviii,  105, 
128 

labor,  114-18;  activists,  225;  contracts, 
117-18;  and  government,  relation- 
ship between,  115-17,  118;  legislation, 
103-4,  115;  movement,  115-17;  poli- 
cy, 115 

labor  force:  in  agriculture,  115;  in  civil 
service,  169;  distribution  of,  114-15;  ef- 
fect of  export  earnings  on,  104;  in  in- 
dustry, 74;  profile  of,  114-15;  size  of, 
114 

labor  unions,  xxxi,  32,  37,  187-88;  con- 
federation of,  76;  conflict  by,  xxxiv,  38, 
40,  204;  Lacalle's  attempt  to  regulate, 


187-88;  under  military  government, 
xxix;  political  activity  of,  224,  225;  re- 
stored under  Sanguinetti,  187;  role  of, 
in  restoring  civilian  government,  117 

Lacalle  administration,  xxx,  183;  austeri- 
ty program  under,  xxx,  xxxi;  banking 
under,  136;  debt  under,  142;  fishing  in- 
dustry under,  126;  labor  unions  under, 
187-88;  party  politics  under,  173;  and 
Vazquez's  "co-habitation  arrange- 
ment," 152 

Lacalle  de  Herrera,  Luis  Alberto,  xxiii- 
xxiv,  xxxii-xxxiii,  44,  147,  151,  175, 
180,  188;  appointment  of  armed  forces 
commanders  by,  186-87;  background 
of,  151,  180;  campaign  of,  180-81;  eco- 
nomic adjustment  under,  99;  support 
for,  xxxv,  182 

Laguna  del  Sauce,  220 

Laguna  Merin,  xxiv,  14,  55 

La  Paloma,  125 

La  Rocha  National  Movement  (MNR), 
175,  180,  182 

Latin  American  Bishops  Conference:  of 
1968,  92;  of  1979,  92 

Latin  American  Center  for  Human  Econ- 
omy (CLAEH),  90 

Latin  American  Integration  Association 
(ALADI),  xxxi,  191,  198 

Latinamerica  Press,  190 

Latorre,  Lorenzo,  18,  63 

Lavalleja,  Juan  Antonio,  xxvi,  11,  12 

Lavalleja  Department,  56;  development 
in,  62;  ranches  in,  119 

Law  of  Common  Education  (1877),  xxvii, 
88 

Law  of  Mandatory  Civil  Marriage,  19 
Law  of  Professional  Associations,  116 
lawyer  courts,  166 
lawyers,  168 

leather,  12,  56,  100;  exports,  102,  145 

Lebanon:  immigration  from,  27 

Lebret,  Father,  92 

Leftist  Liberty  Front  (Fidel),  38 

Lend-Lease  Agreement,  208 

LFAR.  See  Federal  League  for  Rural 

Action 
Liberal  Party,  178 

Libertad  y  Cambio.  See  Freedom  and 
Change 

Liebig  Meat  Extract  Company,  16 
life  expectancy,  xxiv,  66,  82,  86;  effect  of, 
on  population  growth,  62 


288 


Index 


Liga  Federal  de  Accion  Rural.  See  Fed- 
eral League  for  Rural  Action 
List  14,  34,  38,  39 
List  15,  34,  174 
List  85,  174 
List  99,  40,  47 
List  123,  174 
literacy  rate,  86 
littoral  region,  57 

livestock  exports,  xxviii,  109;  transfer  of 
earnings  from,  111 

livestock  prices,  123-24 

livestock  production,  102;  effect  of 
drought  on,  122;  land  area  dedicated 
to,  123;  methods,  118;  as  percentage  of 
gross  domestic  product,  106,  109 

livestock  products,  105;  dependence  on, 
99 

livestock  raising,  16,  120-23;  improve- 
ments in,  18;  methods  of,  99,  118,  122 

livestock  sector  {see  also  cattle;  sheep), 
xxiii,  5;  under  Batlle  y  Ordonez,  104; 
credit  problems  in,  134;  liberalization 
of,  44;  price  controls  on,  107;  recovery 
in,  119;  stagnation  in,  35,  36-37,  101; 
Terra's  support  for,  30 

living  standards,  77;  of  blue-collar  wor- 
kers, 74;  of  farmers,  74;  of  middle  class, 
73 

Llamadas,  65 

loans:  from  Britain,  18;  dollar-denomi- 
nated, 123;  from  United  States,  27, 
192 

Lopez  Balestra,  Oscar,  175 
lower  class,  70,  74-76;  as  proportion  of 
population,  70 


magazines,  59 
Magellan,  Ferdinand,  6 
Malaysia,  197 

Maldonado  Department,  50;  construction 
boom  in,  131;  development  in,  62; 
ranches  in,  119 

MAN.  See  Nationalist  Action  Movement 

Manini  Rios,  Carlos  25,  27 

Mann,  Horace,  xxvii 

manufactured  products,  106 

manufacturing:  agricultural  inputs  for, 
118,  130;  and  agriculture,  relationship 
between,  118;  decline  in,  112;  nation- 
alization of,  111 


Marcha,  190 

Maritain,  Jacques,  92 

markets:  agricultural,  liberalization  of, 
44;  currency,  114;  domestic,  xxxiv, 
127,  128;  export,  129,  145,  146 

marriage:  common-law,  78;  equality  in, 
78-79;  mandatory  civil,  19,  77,  91 

Martinez  Trueba,  Andres,  36,  36 

Mate  Amargo,  190 

materiel:  acquisition  of,  209,  215;  mod- 
ernization of,  208 
maternity  leave,  37 

MBPP.  &e  Popular  and  Progressive  Blan- 
co Movement 

meat-processing  industry  (see  also  beef), 
16,  57,  123;  agricultural  inputs  for, 
130;  British  control  of,  24;  economic 
changes  in,  21;  export  by,  xxviii,  145; 
improvements  in,  102;  refrigeration  in, 
21-22,  102 

media,  59,  189-90 

medidas  prontas  de  seguridad.  See  prompt 
security  measures 

Medina,  Hugo  M.,  186 

Mendez,  Aparicio,  43 

Mercado  Comun  del  Sur.  See  Southern 
Cone  Common  Market 

merchant  marine,  213,  220 

Mercosur.  See  Southern  Cone  Common 
Market 

mestizos,  xxv,  10,  65 

Metropolitan  Guard,  229 

MGP.  See  Movement  for  the  People's 
Government 

MI.  See  Integration  Movement 

Michelini,  Zelmar,  43,  47,  176 

middle  class,  22,  24,  70,  72-73;  debt  in, 
73;  as  domestic  market,  106;  impor- 
tance of  education  to,  73;  importance 
of  tides  to,  73;  moonlighting  in,  72;  oc- 
cupations of,  72,  73;  as  proportion  of 
population,  70 

Middle  East:  relations  with,  197 

military,  183-87;  amnesty  for,  xxix-xxx, 
179-80,  186,  212,  226;  assistance,  209; 
government  control  of,  203;  intelli- 
gence, 212,  217;  involvement  in  poli- 
tics, 210-12;  justice,  214-15;  law  en- 
forcement by,  210;  officers,  201; 
peacekeeping  activities,  218;  political 
influence  of,  186-87;  political  orienta- 
tion of,  203,  210,  211;  reduction  of, 
xxx,  203;  regions,  217;  suppression  of 


289 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Tupamaros  by,  xxviii,  203;  takeover  of 

Bordaberry  government,  203 
Military  Academy,  186,  209;  established, 

208;  training,  217,  219 
Military  Academy  at  St.  Cyr  (France), 

207 

Military  Air  School,  209,  221 
Military  Institute  for  Advanced  Studies, 
217 

military  personnel:  benefits  for,  214; 
demographic  profile  of,  210;  morale  of, 
214;  pay  for,  214;  as  percentage  of 
population,  214;  reaction  of,  to  military 
government,  211 

military  relations:  with  Argentina,  217; 
with  Brazil,  217;  with  United  States, 
217 

Millor  Coccaro,  Pablo,  175,  182 
MIN.  See  National  Integrationist  Move- 
ment 

Mineracao  e  Participacao.  See  Mining 

Copartnership 
mining,  131 

Mining  Copartnership,  131 
Ministry  of  Economy  and  Finance,  39 
Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs,  197 
Ministry  of  Interior,  190,  228,  231 
Ministry  of  Justice,  158;  abolished,  166; 

duties  of,  166 
Ministry  of  National  Defense,  xxx,  110, 

214,  216;  civilian  as  head  of,  42;  duties 

of,  217 

Ministry  of  Public  Health,  82,  83,  84 

Ministry  of  Tourism,  141 

missionaries,  xxv 

Mitrione,  Dan  A.,  40 

MLN-T.  See  National  Liberation  Move- 

ment-Tupamaros 
MNC.  See  National  Colorado  Movement 
MNR.  See  La  Rocha  National  Movement 
modernization,  xxiv,  20,  22 
monetary  exchange  market,  38;  unified, 

39 

monetary  policy,  113-14;  sterilization, 
114 

money  supply,  107 

Montevideo,  12;  British  occupation  of, 
xxv-xxvi,  8;  Carrasco,  59;  classes  in, 
59;  as  commercial  center,  7-8,  16; 
effects  of  economic  growth  on,  102;  El 
Prado,  59;  fortress  at,  204;  founded, 
xxiv,  3,  58,  101;  health  coverage  in,  83; 
industrial  development  in,  105-6;  labor 


movement  in,  115;  mayor  of,  152,  182, 
183;  naval  base,  220;  Old  City,  58-59; 
Pocitos,  59,  60;  population  in,  11,  20, 
27,  66;  poverty  in,  77;  protests  in,  40; 
public  services  in,  35;  rainfall  in,  55; 
ranchers  in,  70;  rivalry  of,  with  Bue- 
nos Aires,  3,  7;  shantytowns  in,  59, 
210;  siege  of,  xxv,  xxvi,  9,  13-14,  206; 
slave  trade  through,  7-8;  temperatures 
in,  55;  unemployment  in,  76 

Montevideo,  port  of,  22,  125 

Montevideo  Department,  183;  courts  in, 
167-68;  development  in,  62;  govern- 
ment in,  170;  population  of,  57;  popu- 
lation density  of,  58 

Montevideo  Police,  228 

Montevideo  Port  Authority,  26,  130 

Montevideo  region,  Greater,  57-60; 
departments  in,  57 

mortality,  66;  causes  of  death,  82;  rate,  82 

Mortgage  Bank  of  Uruguay,  134;  nation- 
alized, 24 

Movement  for  the  People's  Government 
(MGP),  178 

Movimiento  de  Accion  Nacionalista.  See 
Nationalist  Action  Movement 

Movimiento  de  Independientes  26  de 
Marzo.  See  26th  of  March  Movement 
of  Independents 

Movimiento  de  Independientes  Revolu- 
cionario  Oriental.  See  Uruguayan 
Revolutionary  Movement  of  Inde- 
pendents 

Movimiento  de  Integracion.  See  Integra- 
tion Movement 

Movimiento  de  Integracion  Grito  de 
Ascencio.  See  Grito  de  Asencio  Integra- 
tion Movement 

Movimiento  de  Liberation  Nacional- 
Tupamaros.  See  National  Liberation 
Movement-Tupamaros 

Movimiento  de  Participation  Popular.  See 
People's  Participation  Movement 

Movimiento  de  Reafirmacion  Batllista. 
See  Batllist  Reaffirmation  Movement 

Movimiento  Herrista.  See  Herrist  Move- 
ment 

Movimiento  Integracionista  Nacional.  See 
National  Integrationist  Movement 

Movimiento  Nacional  Colorado.  See  Na- 
tional Colorado  Movement 

Movimiento  Nacional  de  La  Rocha.  See 
La  Rocha  National  Movement 


290 


Index 


Movimiento  Popular  Blanco  y  Progresis- 
ta.  See  Popular  and  Progressive  Blanco 
Movement 

Movimiento  Popular  Frenteamplista.  See 
People's  Broad  Front  Movement 

Movimiento  por  el  Gobierno  del  Pueb- 
lo. See  Movement  for  the  People's  Gov- 
ernment 

Movimiento  Pregon.  See  Pregon  Move- 
ment 

Movimiento  Social  Cristiano.  See  Social 
Christian  Movement 

MPF.  See  People's  Broad  Front 
Movement 

MPP.  See  People's  Participation  Move- 
ment 

MRB.  See  Batllist  Reaffirmation  Move- 
ment 

MRO.  See  Uruguayan  Revolutionary 

Movement  of  Independents 
MSC.  See  Social  Christian  Movement 


Nardone,  Benito,  36,  37,  38 

National  Administration  for  the  Genera- 
tion and  Transmission  of  Electricity 
(UTE),  129,  132;  privatization  of, 
xxxiv 

National  Administration  of  Fuels,  Alco- 
hol, and  Portland  Cement  (ANCAP), 
28,  30,  45,  104,  129,  225;  oil  refining 
by,  132;  privatization  of,  xxxiv 

National  Administration  of  Ports  (ANP), 
26,  129-30 

National  Administration  of  Public  Edu- 
cation, 89 

National  Affordable  Housing  Institute,  31 

National  Association  of  Uruguayan 
Broadcasters  (ANDEBU),  190 

National  Board  for  the  Control  of  Drug 
Trafficking  and  Narcotics  Abuse,  83 

National  Coincidence,  xxxi,  xxxiii,  183 

National  Colorado  Movement  (MNC), 
175 

National  Conciliatory  Program  (Cona- 
pro),  117 

National  Convention  of  Workers  (CNT), 

xxix,  38  ,  40;  banned,  43,  76,  116; 

formed,  76;  restored,  187;  strike  of 

1973,  42,  116 
National  Corps  of  Firemen,  228-29 
National  Council  for  Education  (Conae), 

41,  89 


National  Council  for  the  Prevention  and 
Repression  of  Illicit  Traffic  and  Im- 
proper Use  of  Drugs,  226 

National  Council  of  Administration, 
xxvii,  25 

National  Council  of  Government,  36,  37, 
38,  156 

National  Dairy  Products  Cooperative, 
123 

National  Economic  Inspection  Commit- 
tee, 28-29 

National  Electoral  Office,  172 

National  Federation  of  Secondary 
Teachers,  73 

National  Fishing  Development  Plan,  125 

National  Fishing  Institute,  125 

National  Guard,  206 

National  Institute  of  Technical  Education 
(INET),  88 

National  Integrationist  Movement 
(MIN),  175 

Nationalist  Action  Movement  (MAN), 
178 

Nationalist  Popular  Faction  (CPN),  175 
nationalization,  21-24,  111;  of  Bank  of 
Uruguay,  22-24;  of  manufacturing, 
111;  of  Mortgage  Bank  of  Uruguay,  24; 
of  public  services,  22;  in  service  sector, 
22;  weakened  by  Terra,  30 
National  Land  Settlement  Institute,  35 
National  Liberation  Movement-Tupa- 
maros  (MLN-T),  5,  38,  41-42,  177, 
224-25;  amnesty  for,  92,  158,  177,  189, 
224;  defeat  of,  xxviii,  42,  177,  203,  210, 
225;  established,  177,  225;  opposition 
of,  to  amnesty  for  military  leaders,  180; 
organs  of,  190;  reorganized,  xxx,  177, 
225;  terrorism  by,  xxviii,  40,  107,  203, 
225 

National  Maritime  Police,  220,  228 
National  Mining  and  Geology  Institute, 
131 

National  Office  of  the  Civil  Service 
(ONSC),  168-69;  abolished,  168; 
duties  of,  169;  training  by,  169 

National  Party  (Blancos),  xxix,  xxxiv,  19, 
20,  32,  36,  40,  41,  43,  47,  63,  151,  152, 
156,  158,  172,  173,  190;  administra- 
tions of,  37-39;  affiliation  with,  173; 
army  of,  206;  boycott  of  1910  elections 
by,  22;  clashes  of,  with  Colorado  Party, 
207;  decline  of,  174;  divisions  in, 
xxxiii-xxxiv,  32,  37,  38;  economic 


291 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


policies  of,  5;  factions  of,  173,  174,  175; 
insurrection  by,  17,  21;  jobs  dispensed 
by,  107;  origins  of,  4,  12;  platform  of, 
4,  25,  173,  174,  181;  popularity  of,  xxx, 
xxxv ;  profile  of  members  of,  xxvi,  72; 
purge  of,  44;  support  of  ranchers  for,  71 
National  Police,  203,  210,  226-29;  estab- 
lished, 226;  number  of  personnel  in, 
228;  organization  of,  204,  228;  train- 
ing, 228 
National  Printing  Press,  xxxiv 
National  Refrigerating  (Frigonal),  27 
National  Republican  Association  (ANR), 
174 

National  School  of  Public  Administration 

(France)  (Ecole  Nationale  d'Adminis- 

tration  Publique),  169 
national  security,  158;  internal,  224-25; 

threats  to,  203 
National  Security  Council  (Cosena),  42, 

157,  211 

National  Subsistence  Council,  35 

National  Telecommunications  Adminis- 
tration (ANTEL),  130,  140 

National  Traffic  Police,  228 

Nava,  Guillermo  de,  xxx,  218 

Naval  Academy,  208,  220 

Naval  Air  Service,  208-9 

Naval  Aviation  Service,  209,  220 

Naval  Club  Pact,  47,  151,  166,  212 

Naval  Training  Center,  220 

navy,  208-9,  220;  air  base,  220;  equip- 
ment of,  204;  established,  208;  ma- 
rines in,  209,  220;  mission  of,  204; 
naval  base,  220;  number  of  personnel 
in,  208,  220;  organization  of,  220;  ship- 
yard, 216;  training,  220;  vessels  of, 
208,  220 

neo-Batllism,  34-36 

Netherlands:  emigration  to,  69 

neutrality,  32,  192 

new  peso,  Uruguayan  {see  also  peso),  45; 

collapse  of,  73;  floated  against  dollar,  98 
New  Sector,  178,  182 
newspapers,  51,  59;  party  affiliations  of, 

189 

Nicaragua:  relations  with,  193,  194 
North  Tramway  and  Railway  Company 

{see  also  State  Railways  Administration), 

18,  24 
Nueva  Palmira,  147 
Nuevo  Espacio.  See  New  Sector 
nutrition,  51 


OAS.  See  Organization  of  American 

States 
Office  of  Labor,  115 
Office  of  Planning  and  Budget,  39,  40 
Oficina  Nacional  del  Servicio  Civil.  See 

National  Office  of  the  Civil  Service 
oil:  crisis,  45,  107,  108,  122;  imports,  131, 

132,  145;  price  of,  142 
Oman,  197 

ONSC.  See  National  Office  of  the  Civil 
Service 

Operation  Manufacture,  123 
Organic  University  Law,  37,  88 
Organization  of  American  States  (OAS), 

191,  218,  194 
Oribe,  Manuel,  4,  12;  exiled,  12,  206;  as 

president,  12,  206 
Oriental  Republic  of  Uruguay,  xxvi,  3; 

established,  11,  152-53 
Orthodox  Herrerists,  38 
Ortiz,  Dando,  175 


Pacheco  Areco,  Jorge,  xxviii,  39,  47,  175, 
182,  189,  210;  economic  policies  of,  5 

Pachequism,  39-41 

Pachequists,  42,  44,  175 

Pacto  del  Chinchulm.  See  Pork  Barrel  Pact 

Palestine  Liberation  Organization  (PLO), 
197 

Panama,  198 
Pando,  209 

Paraguay:  economic  integration  with, 
146-47,  198;  relations  with,  195; 
tourists  from,  141;  trade  with,  xxxii; 
war  declared  on,  xxvii,  15,  207 

parity,  173 

Partido  Colorado.  See  Colorado  Party 
Partido  Comunista  del  Uruguay.  See 

Communist  Party  of  Uruguay 
Partido  de  Democracia  Avanzada.  See  Ad- 
vanced Democracy  Party 
Partido  Democrata  Cristiano.  See  Chris- 
tian Democratic  Party 
Partido  Liberal.  See  Liberal  Party 
Partido  Nacional.  See  National  Party 
Partido  Nacional-Barran.  See  Barran  Na- 
tional Party 
Partido  por  el  Gobierno  del  Pueblo.  See 

People's  Government  Party 
Partido  por  la  Victoria  del  Pueblo.  See 
People's  Victory  Party 


292 


Index 


Partido  Socialista  de  los  Trabaj adores.  See 
Socialist  Workers'  Party 

Partido  Socialista  del  Uruguay.  See  So- 
cialist Party  of  Uruguay 

Pascale,  Ricardo,  144 

Paso  de  los  Toros  Dam,  31,  55 

Paso  de  Mendoza,  209 

pasture,  56,  100,  119 

Paul  VI  (Pope),  92 

Paysandu,  16,  57,  139 

Paysandu  Department,  56,  57;  develop- 
ment in,  62;  ranches  in,  119 

PCU.  See  Communist  Party  of  Uruguay 

PDC.  See  Christian  Democratic  Party 

Penal  Code  (1889),  230-31;  amended, 
231;  inmates  under,  231-32 

pensioners,  111;  poverty  among,  76 

pensions,  xxiv,  xxxv,  72,  84-86;  decline 
in,  76;  initiation  of,  84;  recovery  of,  77 

People's  Blanco  Union  (UBP),  175 

People's  Broad  Front  Movement  (MPF), 
177 

People's  Government  Party  (PGP), 
176-77,  190;  organs  of,  190 

People's  Participation  Movement  (MPP), 
177 

People's  Victory  Party  (PVP),  177 
Pereira,  Gabriel,  16 
perestroika,  187 

Pereyra,  Carlos  Julio,  44,  181,  182 
Perez,  Jaime,  176 
Perez  Piera,  Hector,  179 
Permanent  Civil  Register  Law,  20 
periodicals,  189-90 
Peron,  Juan  Domingo,  34 
Persian  Gulf  crisis,  xxxii,  145,  198 
peso  (see  also  new  peso,  Uruguayan): 

decline  of,  143;  devaluation  of,  113, 

135;  issued,  102 
PGP.  See  People's  Government  Party 
Piriapolis,  60,  125 

PIT.  See  Interunion  Workers'  Assembly 

(or  Plenum) 
PIT-CNT,  46,  76,  187,  190;  strike  by,  47 
Pivel  Devoto,  Juan,  175 
Plenario  Intersindical  de  Trabajadores. 

See  Interunion  Workers'  Assembly  (or 

Plenum) 

PLO.  See  Palestine  Liberation  Organi- 
zation 

PLP.  See  For  the  Fatherland 
PLUNA.  See  Uruguayan  National  Air- 
lines 


police.  See  National  Police 
Police  Training  Academy,  228 
political:  conflict,  63;  development  index, 

xxiii-xxiv;  instability,  12,  101;  rights, 

20,  25;  violence,  28 
A  Political  Economy  of  Uruguay  since  1870 

(Finch),  128 
political  exiles,  xxix;  return  of,  xxiv,  69, 

225 

political  parties  (see  also  under  individual  par- 
ties), 17,  172-79;  administrative  struc- 
ture of,  174;  affiliation  with,  173; 
disputes  among,  224;  distribution  of 
jobs  by,  111;  established,  4;  factions  of, 
26,  173;  ideological  differences  be- 
tween, 174;  legalized,  224;  membership 
of,  72;  political  activity  of,  224;  prolifer- 
ation of,  22;  restrictions  on,  43;  under 
military  government,  xxix 
Political  Parties  Law,  29,  35,  46,  171 
political  prisoners,  xxix;  amnesty  for,  158, 
204 

political  uprisings,  31,  204,  224;  in  1960s, 
38,  40;  suppression  of,  29,  210 

Polo  Progresista.  See  Progressive  Pole 

Pons  Etcheverry,  Eduardo,  175 

Ponsonby,  John  (Lord),  11 

Popular  and  Progressive  Blanco  Move- 
ment (MBPP),  178 

Popular  Union,  38 

population,  20,  62-63,  97;  aging  of,  66, 
85-86;  average  age  of,  85;  birth  rate, 
62;  distribution  of,  11,  20;  in  1830,  11; 
in  1879,  16;  factors  in  size  of,  62; 
growth  rate,  62,  65-66,  67,  97;  im- 
migrant, 16;  increase  in,  27;  in  1985, 
62;  in  1988,  62 

Pork  Barrel  Pact,  28 

Por  la  Patria.  See  For  the  Fatherland 

port  facilities,  125,  131;  privatization  of, 
xxxi 

Portugal:  colony  founded  by,  7;  indepen- 
dence from,  xxvi;  rivalry  of,  with 
Spain,  xxv,  3,  204 

Portuguese  military,  xxv 

postal  service,  19,  110 

poverty:  families  living  in,  xxxiv,  77 

Pregon  Movement.  See  Movimiento 
Pregon 

presidency,  36 

president  (see  also  executive),  25,  42;  ap- 
pointment of  armed  forces  commanders 
by,  186-87;  as  commander  in  chief  of 


293 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


armed  forces,  216;  conflicts  of,  with  col- 
legia! executive,  155;  under  constitution 
of  1967,  157;  hierarchy  under,  159;  in- 
auguration of,  159 

Presidential  Information  Service 
(SEPREDI),  190 

press:  freedom  of,  189;  restrictions  on, 
xxix,  43,  210;  services,  190 

PRESSUR,  190 

price  controls,  108 

Primeras  Lmeas  Uruguayas  de  Navega- 
cion  Aerea.  See  Uruguayan  National 
Airlines 

prisons,  231-32 

privatization,  xxiv,  xxxi,  xxxiv,  181;  op- 
position to,  xxxiii 

Productivity,  Prices,  and  Income  Com- 
mission (Coprin),  40 

professional  associations,  73 

Progressive  Faction,  178-79 

Progressive  Pole,  xxxiv 

prompt  security  measures,  37,  40 

protectionist  policies,  103,  106,  127-28 

Protestants,  92 

PST.  See  Socialist  Workers'  Party 

PSU.  See  Socialist  Party  of  Uruguay 

public:  administration,  168-69;  assis- 
tance, 31;  health,  170;  housing,  59; 
order,  224-25,  228 

Public  Companies  Law,  xxxiii 

public  employees:  reinstatement  of,  117; 
strikes  by,  116 

Public  Ministry,  166 

public  sector:  burdens  of,  107;  debt  bur- 
den of,  109,  129,  141;  size  of,  98;  as 
source  of  employment,  xxviii,  97,  99, 
107,  111,  115;  unions  in,  98,  188 

public  services:  British  control  of,  18,  35; 
initiation  of,  16;  local  jurisdiction  over, 
170;  modernization  of,  20;  nationaliza- 
tion of,  22;  reduction  of,  xxx;  role  of 
state  in,  35;  spending  on,  82 

public-works  projects,  213 

Punta  del  Este,  34,  60,  125,  139;  con- 
struction boom  in,  131;  international 
meetings  in,  xxxi;  tourism  in,  141 

purges,  44 

PVP.  See  People's  Victory  Party 
Qatar,  197 

Quagliotti  de  Bellis,  Bernardo,  191 
Quijano,  Carlos,  26,  190 


Radical  Blanco  Party,  26,  31 
radio:  sets,  51;  stations,  59,  140,  190 
railroads,  19,  35,  102,  139;  passengers  on, 
139 

Ramirez,  Juan  Andres,  183 

ranchers,  29-30;  benefits  granted  to,  30; 
government  conflicts  with,  35;  invest- 
ment by,  105,  106 

ranches,  210;  land  area  of,  119 

Reagan,  Ronald  W.,  194 

recession,  97,  109,  112,  129 

recreation,  79-80 

regional  integration,  146-47,  195,  197-98 
regions,  56-62;  coastal,  60;  development 

of,  60-62;  Greater  Montevideo,  57-60; 

interior,  56-57;  littoral,  57 
religion  (see  also  under  individual  religions), 

11,  91-92;  observance,  91 
Renewal  Faction,  179 

Renovation  y  Victoria.  See  Renovation 

and  Victory 
Renovation  and  Victory  (RV),  175,  182 
repression,  29,  43;  of  labor,  116;  under 

military  government,  xxviii,  211;  as 

motivation  for  emigration,  68 
Republican  Guard,  229 
Republica  Oriental  del  Uruguay.  See 

Oriental  Republic  of  Uruguay 
research  institutes,  90,  190 
rice,  56-57 
Rio  Cuareim,  14 
Rio  de  Janeiro,  1 1 

Rio  de  la  Plata,  xxiv,  xxv,  3,  6,  7,  9,  12 

Rio  de  la  Plata  Basin  trade  region,  xxiv, 
195,  197,  198 

Rio  de  la  Plata  Basin  Treaty,  191 

Rio  Grande  do  Sul  State,  Brazil,  19-20 

Rio  Negro,  xxv,  31,  55 

Rio  Negro  Department,  56,  57;  develop- 
ment in,  62;  farming  in,  119 

Rio  Parana,  9,  14 

Rio  Treaty.  See  Inter- American  Treaty  of 

Reciprocal  Assistance 
Rio  Uruguay,  xxiv,  xxv,  3,  9,  14,  52-55, 

139-40 
Rio  Yaguaron,  xxiv,  14 
Rio  Yf,  55 

Rivera,  Jose  Fructoso,  4,  12;  as  president, 

12,  206 

Rivera  Department,  56;  development  in, 
62;  drought  in,  124;  ranches  in,  119 
Riverism,  26 

Riverists.  See  Colorado  Party-General 


294 


Index 


Rivera,  25 
rivers,  52-55 

River  Transport  System,  xxxii,  196 
roads,  131,  136;  maintenance  of,  213; 

modernization  of,  139 
Roballo,  Alba,  178 

Rocha  Department,  60;  development  in, 
62;  ranches  in,  119 

Rodriguez  Pedotti,  Andres,  147,  196 

Roosevelt,  Franklin  D.,  31 

Rosas,  Juan  Manuel  de,  12;  exiled,  14; 
fall  from  power  of,  14;  in  Great  War,  14 

Rossi  Passina,  Heber,  179 

rural  areas:  under  Batlle  y  Ordonez,  104; 
electrical  network  in,  132;  families  in, 
78;  literacy  rate  in,  86;  political  affilia- 
tion in,  174;  political  control  in,  101; 
population  in,  11,  63;  population 
growth  rate  in,  67;  road  network  in, 
136;  symbolic  kinship  ties  in,  78 

Rural  Association,  16,  18,  27 

Rural  Code  (1875),  18 

rural  economy,  100;  development  of,  101 

Rural  Federation,  24,  27,  70 

Ruralists,  38,  41,  74 

rural-urban  conflict,  63;  decrease  in,  71; 
economic,  101;  political,  4,  173-74 

rural  workers,  74;  under  Amezaga,  33- 
34;  wages  of,  77 

Rural  Worker  Statute,  34 

RV.  See  Renovation  and  Victory 

Salto,  9,  16,  139 

Salto  Department,  56;  development  in, 
62;  ranches  in,  119,  122 

Salto  Grande  Dam,  57,  131-32 

San  Felipe  de  Montevideo  {see  also  Mon- 
tevideo): founded,  7 

Sanguinetti  Cairolo,  Julio  Maria,  xxix, 
41,  47,  86,  146,  151,  175,  212;  back- 
ground of,  151-52 

Sanguinetti  administration,  xxiv,  109-11, 
151-52,  179-80;  agriculture  under, 
109;  autonomous  entities  under,  130; 
Colorado-Communist  Pact  signed  by, 
187;  economy  under,  98,  109-11,  112, 
129;  education  under,  89;  fiscal  policy 
under,  112-13,  117-18;  foreign  rela- 
tions under,  192-97;  human  rights  un- 
der, 158;  infrastructure  under,  132; 
labor  under,  117,  187;  news  service  of, 
190;  party  politics  in,  173;  restoration 


of  democracy  under,  189;  tourism  un- 
der, 141 

San  Jose  Department:  development  in, 

62;  farming  in,  119-20 
Santos,  Maximo,  18 
Saravia,  Aparicio,  19-20,  21 
Sarney  Costa,  Jose,  146 
School  of  Arms  and  Services,  210 
School  of  Diplomacy,  197 
School  of  Naval  Specialization,  220 
schools,  postsecondary:  enrollment,  86 
schools,  primary:  enrollment,  86,  89; 

number  of,  86-87;  pupil-teacher  ratio 

in,  87 

schools,  secondary:  academic,  87;  enroll- 
ment, 86,  87,  89;  political  activity  in, 
88;  technical,  87,  89 
secularism  {see  also  church-state  conflict),  4 
secularization,  19,  24-25;  origins  of,  91 
Senate,  29,  33,  153,  155,  159;  distribu- 
tion of  seats  in,  173;  impeachment  by, 
162-64;  members  of,  162;  in  1989  elec- 
tion, 182 
Sendic,  Raul  Antonaccio,  38 
SEPREDI.  See  Presidential  Information 
Service 

Seregni  Mosquera,  Liber,  47,  151,  177, 
178 

Serrato,  Jose,  26 

service  sector,  132-41;  export  of,  132-34; 

labor  force  in,  115;  nationalization  in, 

111;  as  percentage  of  gross  domestic 

product,  110,  132 
Servicio  Presidencial  de  Information.  See 

Presidential  Information  Service 
sheep,  xxv ;  mutton,  122;  number  of,  120; 

raising,  16,  56,  102,  123;  ranchers,  102; 

ranches,  56,  63 
Shevardnadze,  Eduard  A.,  196 
Shultz,  George  P.,  193,  194 
Singapore,  197 
slave  trade,  7-8 
smuggling,  226 

Social  Christian  Movement  (MSC),  181 

social  classes,  xxvii,  69-76;  lower,  70; 
middle,  70;  separation  of,  59;  stratifi- 
cation of,  70;  upper,  70 

Social  Democracy,  26 

social  development,  51,  179;  in  interior 
region,  56 

Socialist  Party  of  Uruguay  (PSU),  22,  26, 
31,  32,  176;  allied  with  Christian  Demo- 
crats, 92;  banned,  39 


295 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


Socialist  Workers'  Party  (PST),  177 
social  reform,  27;  under  Amezaga,  33; 

under  Batlle  y  Ordonez,  xxvii,  22, 

24-26,  27,  103,  104;  end  to,  25-26; 

during  Great  Depression,  28;  weakened 

by  Terra,  30 
social  rights,  29 

social  security  system,  27,  80;  abuse  of, 
84-85;  categories  of  benefits  in,  85; 
government  spending  on,  80;  pensions, 
84-86;  reform  of,  xxxii;  spending  on, 
xxxv,  85 

social  services:  control  of,  45;  cutbacks  in, 
xxiv 

Social  Welfare  Bank,  39,  84,  134 
social  welfare  programs,  xxiii,  xxviii,  4, 

22,  37,  97,  99;  opposition  to,  36; 

proposals  to  restructure,  xxxiv-xxxv; 

supported  by  exports,  99,  111 
Sociedad  de  Defensa  de  la  Tradition 

Familia  y  Propriedad.  See  Society  for 

the  Defense  of  Family  Tradition  and 

Property 

Society  for  the  Defense  of  Family  Tradi- 
tion and  Property  (TFP),  176 
Solano  Lopez,  Francisco,  15,  207 
Soriano,  xxv 

Soriano  Department,  56,  57;  develop- 
ment in,  62;  farming  in,  119 

Sosa,  Julio  Maria,  26 

Sosism,  26 

South  Africa,  197 

South  Atlantic  War,  195 

Southern  Cone  Common  Market  (Mer- 
cosur), xxxii-xxxiii;  reaction  to,  xxxii- 
xxxiii 

The  Southern  Star/La  Estrella  del  Sur,  xxvi 
Soviet  Union,  187;  relations  with,  31, 

193,  196;  Sanguinetti's  visit  to,  152, 

196 

Soviet-Uruguayan  Cultural  Center,  196 

Spain:  discovery  of  Uruguay  by,  3;  emi- 
gration to,  69;  immigration  from, 
xxvii,  15,  16,  51,  102;  independence 
from,  xxvi;  invasion  of,  by  Napoleon, 
8;  relations  with,  31;  rivalry  of,  with 
Portugal,  xxv,  3,  204 

Spanish  military,  xxv 

State  Electric  Power  and  Telephone  Com- 
pany, 28 

State  Electric  Power  Company,  22,  28 
state  enterprises.  See  autonomous  entities 
State  Insurance  Bank,  134,  147 


State  Railways  Administration  {see  also 
North  Tramway  and  Railway  Compa- 
ny), 24,  39 

State  Security  Law  (1972),  42 

Stock  Exchange,  59 

strike  insurance,  37 

strikes,  210;  of  1950s,  37;  of  1960s,  116; 
of  1973,  42;  of  1980s,  115,  117,  187, 
225;  of  1990s,  xxxiv,  188;  by  public 
employees,  116,  188;  repressed,  26 

student  demonstrations,  40,  43,  46,  88, 
210,  225 

student  organizations,  225 

students,  87,  188-89;  influence  of,  188- 
89;  number  of,  88;  political  activity  of, 
224,  225 

Students'  Social  and  Cultural  Association 
for  Public  Education  (ASCEEP),  46 

sub-lemas.  See  political  parties,  factions  of; 
see  under  individual  parties 

suffrage  {see  also  voting):  under  1830  con- 
stitution, 11;  under  1934  constitution, 
29;  universal  male,  26;  women's,  xxvii, 
29,  78,  159 

Supreme  Court  of  Justice,  154,  155,  157, 
165,  215,  229-30;  appointment  of 
judges  by,  167,  168;  appointment  of 
members  of,  164,  166;  members  of, 
166;  powers  of,  166,  204;  regeneration 
of,  166;  women  on,  159 

Supreme  Military  Tribunal,  215 

Switzerland,  51 

"Switzerland  of  South  America,"  xxiii, 

34,  36,  51,  100 
Syria:  immigration  from,  27 


Tacuarembo  Department,  56;  develop- 
ment in,  62;  drought  in,  124;  ranches 
in,  119,  122 

Taiwan,  196 

Tajes,  Maximo,  19 

TAMU.  See  Uruguayan  Military  Air 

Transport 
Tanzania,  197 

tariff  barriers,  xxxii,  97;  effect  of,  on 
domestic  industry,  106,  127;  lowered 
under  military  regime,  108 

tariff  reduction  agreements,  146 

Tarigo,  Enrique  E.,  174 

taxes,  18,  24,  80;  increased  under  Lacalle, 
xxx;  increased  under  Sanguinetti,  113 


296 


Index 


tax  policies,  70 

teachers:  qualifications  of,  86;  training,  86 

telegraph  networks,  102 

telephone  system,  20,  51,  59,  140;  privati- 
zation of,  xxxi 

television:  sets,  51;  stations,  59,  140,  189 

Terra,  Gabriel,  xxviii,  27-28,  155;  at- 
tempt to  assassinate,  29;  coup  of,  208 

Terra,  Juan  Pablo,  92 

Terrists,  35,  155 

terrorism,  xxxv,  107 

textile  industry,  130 

TFP.  See  Society  for  the  Defense  of  Fa- 
mily Tradition  and  Property 

Thirty-Three  Heroes,  xxvi,  11,  12 

Tlatelolco  Treaty.  See  Treaty  for  the  Pro- 
hibition of  Nuclear  Weapons  in  Latin 
America 

topography,  52 

torture,  xxix,  42,  43,  180,  211 
tourism,  xxxiv,  110,  132,  140-41;  value 
of,  140 

Trademo.  See  Democratic  Traditionalism 
Tradicionalismo  Democratico.  See  Demo- 
cratic Traditionalism 
traditionalism,  xxiv 

transportation,  18,  19,  35,  110,  132, 
136-40;  automobile,  139;  highway  net- 
work, 136;  international,  136;  public, 
139;  water,  139-40 

Transportes  Aereos  Militares  Uruguayos. 
See  Uruguayan  Military  Air  Transport 

Treaty  for  the  Prohibition  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  in  Latin  America  (Tlatelol- 
co Treaty),  191,  218 

Treaty  of  Acegua  (1904),  21 

Treaty  of  Asuncion,  xxxii 

Treaty  of  Montevideo,  11 

Treaty  on  the  Nonproliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons,  218 

Treinta  y  Tres  Department,  56;  develop- 
ment in,  62;  farming  in,  119-20 

Tribunal  of  Administrative  Claims,  157 

Triple  Alliance,  15,  207 

Tupi-Guaram  people,  6 

26  M.  See  26th  of  March  Movement  of 
Independents 

26th  of  March  Movement  of  Indepen- 
dents (26  M),  177 

UBD.  See  Democratic  Blanco  Union 
Ubilles,  Francisco,  181 


UBP.  See  People's  Blanco  Union 

UC.  See  Civic  Union 

UCB.  See  Colorado  and  Batllist  Union 

UCU.  See  Civic  Union  of  Uruguay 

UGT.  See  General  Union  of  Workers 

UNDP.  See  United  Nations  Development 
Programme 

underemployment,  73 

unemployment:  creation  of  jobs  to  pre- 
vent, 80;  in  Great  Depression,  28;  af- 
ter Korean  War,  111;  level,  xxxiv,  76, 
110;  under  military  regime,  109;  as 
motivation  for  emigration,  68-69;  un- 
der Sanguinetti  regime,  112;  of  univer- 
sity graduates,  73;  of  urban  poor,  76 

Unidad  y  Reforma.  See  Unity  and  Reform 

unification,  21,  101-2 

Union  Blanca  Democratica.  See  Demo- 
cratic Blanco  Union 

Union  Blanca  Popular.  See  People's  Blan- 
co Union 

Union  Civica.  See  Civic  Union 

Union  Civica  del  Uruguay.  See  Civic  Un- 
ion of  Uruguay 

Union  Colorada  y  Batllista.  See  Colora- 
do and  Batllist  Union 

Union  General  de  Trabaj adores.  See 
General  Union  of  Workers 

union  movement,  27 

Union  Popular.  See  Popular  Union 

unions,  5;  activities  of,  117;  banned  by 
Bordaberry,  5,  44;  establishment  of,  16; 
repression  of,  72;  white-collar,  72,  73 

unitary  rule:  versus  federalism,  4 

United  Batllism  (BU),  174,  180 

United  Nations:  membership  in,  191 

United  Nations  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  191 

United  Nations  Development  Programme 
(UNDP),  51 

United  Provinces  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata: 
Banda  Oriental  incorporated  into,  1 1 ; 
formed,  9 

United  States,  45;  anti-money-laundering 
agreement  with,  xxxii;  criticism  from, 
216;  criticism  of,  193;  debt  to,  141;  debt 
rescheduling  with,  30;  emigration  to, 
69;  as  export  market,  145;  free-trade 
pact  with,  xxxii;  Human  Development 
Index  rank  of,  52;  industries,  30;  in- 
fluence of,  208;  installation  of  military 
bases  by,  xxviii,  32,  192;  investment 
by,  24;  loans  from,  27,  192;  materiel 


297 


Uruguay:  A  Country  Study 


acquired  from,  209;  military  assistance 
from,  209,  216;  military  relations  with, 
217;  relations  with,  31,  192,  193-94; 
state  visit  to,  193;  support  for,  198; 
trade  with,  16,  37 
United  States  Department  of  Defense,  216 
United  States  Department  of  State,  209 
Unity  and  Reform,  34,  36,  38,  41,  174, 
175 

University  of  Montevideo.  See  Universi- 
ty of  the  Republic 

University  of  the  Republic,  19,  71,  87, 
105;  autonomy  of,  37,  88,  90,  225;  en- 
rollments in,  89;  expense  of  attending, 
87;  faculties  in,  31;  law  school,  168; 
medical  school,  80;  political  activity  in, 
88,  189,  225;  relations  of,  with  govern- 
ment, 40,  43;  restructured,  31;  stu- 
dents, 87;  women  at,  24 

upper  class,  70;  as  proportion  of  popula- 
tion, 70 

urban  areas:  literacy  rate  in,  86;  politi- 
cal affiliation  in,  174;  population  in,  11, 
63;  population  growth  rate  in,  67; 
poverty  in,  76 

urbanization,  66-67;  effect  of,  on  popu- 
lation growth,  62;  of  interior,  56 

urban  migration,  67-68;  by  women,  78 

urban-rural  conflict.  See  rural-urban 
conflict 

Urquiza,  Justo  Jose  de,  14 

Uruguay:  etymology  of  the  word  Uru- 
guay, xxiv-xxv 

Uruguayan  Association  of  Bank  Em- 
ployees (AEBU),  73 

Uruguayan  Bishops  Conference,  91 

Uruguayan  Federation  of  Elementary 
Teachers,  73 

Uruguayan  Military  Air  Transport 
(TAMU),  139 

Uruguayan  National  Airlines  (PLUNA), 
139;  privatization  of,  xxxi,  xxxiv 

Uruguayan  Press  Association,  190 

Uruguayan  Revolutionary  Movement  of 
Independents  (MRO),  xxxv,  177 

Uruguayan  Syndicalist  Union,  27 

Uruguay  Round,  xxxi,  193 

Usinas  Electricas  y  Telefonos  del  Estado. 
See  State  Electric  Power  and  Telephone 
Company 

UTE.  See  National  Administration  for  the 
Generation  and  Transmission  of  Elec- 
tricity 


vacation  communities,  60 

Vaillant,  Victor,  174 

Varela,  Jose  Pedro,  xxvii,  17-18,  19,  88 

Varela,  Washington,  186 

Vassallo,  Carlos,  178 

Vazquez,  Tabare,  xxx,  xxxv,  152,  182, 

183;  "co-habitation  arrangement"  of, 

152 

Vegh  Villegas,  Alejandro,  40;  economic 

plan  of,  45,  46 
Venezuela:  emigration  to,  69 
vice  president,  159 
Viceroyalty  of  Brazil,  204 
Viceroyalty  of  the  Rio  de  la  Plata,  7,  204; 

dissolved,  9 
Viera,  Feliciano,  25,  192 
Vierism,  26 
Vision  magazine,  126 
voters,  182 

voting  {see  also  suffrage),  170-72;  compul- 
sory, xxvii,  152,  159,  170;  rules  govern- 
ing, 170-71;  supervision  of,  172; 
turnout,  152 


wage,  minimum:  adoption  of,  xxvii;  in 
1980s,  74,  77;  in  1990,  74 

wage  and  price  freeze,  77,  116 

wage  councils,  77,  116;  abolished,  116; 
reestablished,  117 

wages,  xxxi,  116;  increases  in,  117;  in- 
dexation of,  118;  negotiations  for,  117 

wages,  real,  37,  40,  98,  117,  118;  decrease 
in,  xxx,  45,  77,  107,  112,  115;  recov- 
ery of,  77 

War  of  the  Triple  Alliance,  xxvi-xxvii 

Weinstein,  Martin,  155,  172,  186 

West  Germany.  See  Federal  Republic  of 
Germany 

White  Emblem,  175 

Williman  administration,  22 

Williman,  Claudio,  22 

women:  barriers  for,  159;  civil  rights  of, 
34,  77,  159;  and  divorce,  25,  77-78; 
education  of,  78,  88;  employment  of, 
72,  76,  78;  maternity  leave  for,  37;  roles 
of,  79;  suffrage  of,  xxvii,  31,  78,  159; 
university  education  of,  24;  urban 
migration  by,  78 

wool:  demand  for,  102,  123;  production 
of,  105,  122 

wool  exports,  xxv,  xxviii,  37,  56,  63,  97, 


298 


Index 


102,  122,  145;  attempts  to  revitalize, 
113;  decline  in,  119,  122;  during 
Korean  War,  105,  128;  as  source  of  for- 
eign exchange,  122 

workers,  22;  blue-collar,  74-76;  dismissed 
for  political  activities,  116;  rights  of,  4, 
31,  33;  salaries  of,  112;  transfer  of  rural 
earnings  to,  111;  unemployment 
among,  112 

working  conditions:  reform  of,  4,  27 

World  Bank:  loans  from,  136-39 

World  Cup,  27,  34 

World  Federation  of  Trade  Unions,  187 
World  War  I,  192 

World  War  II:  exports  during,  xxviii, 
105;  labor  during,  116;  United  States 


influence  during,  208 

Yang  Shangkun,  197 

Yaro  people,  6 

yerba  mate,  79 

Young,  Juan  Guillermo,  178 

youth:  rebelliousness  of,  79,  180 

Zambia,  197 
Zerbino,  Ricardo,  144 
Zeta,  190 
Zimbabwe,  197 

Zumaran,  Alberto  Saenz  de,  xxxiv,  75, 
181,  182 


299 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-44 

.Aliens, 

550-174 

550-59 

An  cola 

550-82 

Guyana,  and  Belize 

550-73 

A  rcpnrin  ?i 

550-151 

T~TonHnra^ 

X  1U11UU1  CLtJ 

550-169 

Australia 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-170 

Rplcrinm 

iJvlc  1U111 

550-39 

TnHnnp^ia 

iiiuuiii-oia 

550-66 

\J\S\J  \J\J 

Bolivia 

±J\Jll  V  1CX 

550-68 

Iran 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-25 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

vjailllJUUia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

P.amprnnn 

V-J  CUllvl  \J\JX1 

550-34 

TnrHan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

r~Inlnmhia 

\JL  \J  111  ULCL 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

TclnnHc  r\t  tnp 
IMdllUa  KJl  II1C 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

\^exico 

JJu  JU 

Dominican  Republic  and 

^/longoha 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

301 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-42 

Peru 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-162 

Poland 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-160 

Romania 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

302 


4fe 


PIN:  006948-000 


