area  handbook  series 

Yugoslavia 

a  country  study 


Yugoslavia 

a  country  study 


Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Edited  by 
Glenn  E.  Curtis 
Research  Completed 
December  1990 


On  the  cover:  Muslim  minaret,  Skopje 


Third  Edition,  First  Printing,  1992. 

Library  of  Congress  Cataloging-in-Publication  Data 

Yugoslavia  :  a  country  study  /  Federal  Research  Division,  Library  of 
Congress  ;  edited  by  Glenn  E.  Curtis.  —  3rd  ed. 

p.    cm.  —  (Area  handbook  series,  ISSN  1057-5294) 
(DA  pam  ;  550-99) 

"Supersedes  the  1982  edition  of  Yugoslavia:  a  country  study, 
edited  by  Richard  F.  Nyrop." — T.p.  verso. 
"Research  completed  December  1990." 
Includes  bibliographical  references  (pp.  303-319)  and  index. 
ISBN  0-8444-0735-6 

1.  Yugoslavia.    I.  Curtis,  Glenn  E.  (Glenn  Eldon),  1946- 
II.  Library  of  Congress.  Federal  Research  Division.  III.  Area 
handbook  for  Yugoslavia.  IV.  Series.  V.  Series  :  DA  pam  ; 


550-99. 
DR1214.Y83  1992 
949.7— dc20 


91-40323 
CIP 


Headquarters,  Department  of  the  Army 


DA  Pam  550-99 


For  sale  by  the  Superintendent  of  Documents,  U.S.  Government  Printing  Office 
Washington,  D.C.  20402 


Foreword 


This  volume  is  one  in  a  continuing  series  of  books  prepared  by 
the  Federal  Research  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress  under 
the  Country  Studies — Area  Handbook  Program  sponsored  by  the 
Department  of  the  Army.  The  last  page  of  this  book  lists  the  other 
published  studies. 

Most  books  in  the  series  deal  with  a  particular  foreign  country, 
describing  and  analyzing  its  political,  economic,  social,  and  national 
security  systems  and  institutions,  and  examining  the  interrelation- 
ships of  those  systems  and  the  ways  they  are  shaped  by  cultural 
factors.  Each  study  is  written  by  a  multidisciplinary  team  of  social 
scientists.  The  authors  seek  to  provide  a  basic  understanding  of 
the  observed  society,  striving  for  a  dynamic  rather  than  a  static 
portrayal.  Particular  attention  is  devoted  to  the  people  who  make 
up  the  society,  their  origins,  dominant  beliefs  and  values,  their  com- 
mon interests  and  the  issues  on  which  they  are  divided,  the  nature 
and  extent  of  their  involvement  with  national  institutions,  and  their 
attitudes  toward  each  other  and  toward  their  social  system  and 
political  order. 

The  books  represent  the  analysis  of  the  authors  and  should  not 
be  construed  as  an  expression  of  an  official  United  States  govern- 
ment position,  policy,  or  decision.  The  authors  have  sought  to 
adhere  to  accepted  standards  of  scholarly  objectivity.  Corrections, 
additions,  and  suggestions  for  changes  from  readers  will  be  wel- 
comed for  use  in  future  editions. 

Louis  R.  Mortimer 
Chief 

Federal  Research  Division 
Library  of  Congress 
Washington,  D.C.  20540 


iii 


Acknowledgments 


The  authors  are  indebted  to  numerous  individuals  and  organi- 
zations who  gave  their  time,  research  materials,  advice,  and  ex- 
pertise on  Yugoslav  affairs  to  provide  data,  perspective,  and  material 
support  for  this  volume. 

The  work  of  Steven  L.  Burg  and  Robert  E.  Bartos,  authors  of 
the  Government  and  Politics  and  National  Security  chapters,  respec- 
tively, of  the  previous  edition  of  the  Yugoslavia  area  handbook, 
supplied  vital  foundation  material  to  the  new  authors  of  those  chap- 
ters. Thanks  also  go  to  the  Embassy  of  Yugoslavia  and  the  Yugo- 
slav National  Tourist  Office  (New  York)  for  supplying  the  editor 
with  a  large  number  of  photographs  from  which  to  choose.  The 
expert  photography  of  Charles  Sudetic  and  Sam  and  Sarah  Stulberg 
has  added  timely  and  picturesque  images  of  Yugoslavia.  And,  in  the 
final  stages  of  updating  current  events  in  Yugoslavia,  the  firsthand 
insights  of  Paul  Pajic  of  the  Library  of  Congress  were  invaluable. 

Thanks  also  go  to  Ralph  K.  Benesch,  who  oversees  the  Coun- 
try Studies — Area  Handbook  Program  for  the  Department  of  the 
Army.  In  addition,  the  authors  appreciate  the  advice  and  guidance 
of  Sandra  W.  Meditz,  Federal  Research  Division  coordinator  of  the 
handbook  series.  Special  thanks  also  go  to  Marilyn  L.  Majeska,  who 
managed  editing  and  production,  assisted  by  Andrea  T.  Merrill;  to 
Kimberly  Lord,  who  designed  the  book  cover;  to  Carlyn  Dawn 
Anderson,  who  designed  the  illustrations  on  the  title  page  of  each 
chapter;  to  David  P.  Cabitto,  who  provided  graphics  support  and, 
together  with  Harriett  R.  Blood  and  the  firm  of  Greenhorne  and 
O'Mara,  prepared  maps;  and  to  Tim  Merrill,  who  compiled  geo- 
graphic data.  The  following  individuals  are  gratefully  acknowledged 
as  well:  Sharon  Costello,  who  edited  the  chapters,  and  Barbara  Edg- 
erton  and  Izella  Watson,  who  did  the  word  processing.  Cissie  Coy 
performed  the  final  prepublication  editorial  review;  Joan  C.  Cook 
compiled  the  index;  and  Linda  Peterson  of  the  Printing  and  Process- 
ing Section,  Library  of  Congress,  prepared  the  camera- ready  copy, 
under  the  supervision  of  Peggy  Pixley. 


Contents 


Page 

Foreword    Hi 

Acknowledgments   v 

Preface      xiii 

Country  Profile     XV 

Introduction     xxiii 

Chapter  1.  Historical  Setting    1 

Charles  Sudetic 

PRE-SLAV  HISTORY   4 

HISTORIES  OF  THE  YUGOSLAV  PEOPLES 

TO  WORLD  WAR  I   6 

The  Slovenes    7 

The  Croats  and  Their  Territories   10 

The  Serbs  and  Serbia,  Vojvodina,  and  Montenegro  .  .  16 

Bosnia  and  Hercegovina    22 

Macedonia   25 

THE  BALKAN  WARS,  WORLD  WAR  I,  AND  THE 

FORMATION  OF  YUGOSLAVIA,  1912-18   26 

The  Balkan  Wars  and  World  War  I    27 

Formation  of  the  South  Slav  State    28 

The  Kingdom  of  Yugoslavia    29 

Political  Life  in  the  1920s    31 

Economic  Life  and  Foreign  Policy  in  the  1920s    32 

The  Royal  Dictatorship   33 

The  Regency    35 

The  Sporazum,  Tripartite  Pact,  and  Outbreak 

of  World  War  II    36 

YUGOSLAVIA  IN  WORLD  WAR  II,  1941-45    37 

Partition  and  Terror    37 

The  Resistance  Movement    39 

POSTWAR  YUGOSLAVIA   42 

Communist  Takeover  and  Consolidation   42 

The  Yugoslav-Soviet  Rift    45 

Introduction  of  Socialist  Self-Management    47 

Nonalignment  and  Yugoslav-Soviet  Rapprochement  .  .  49 

Reforms  of  the  1960s   50 

vii 


Unrest  in  Croatia  and  Its  Consequences 

in  the  1970s    53 

The  1974  Constitution   54 

Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment   59 

Charles  Sudetic 

GEOGRAPHY  AND  POPULATION    63 

Topography   63 

Drainage  Systems    64 

Climate    64 

Pollution    67 

Population    67 

YUGOSLAVIA'S  PEOPLES    69 

Ethnographic  History    69 

Ethnic  Composition   70 

Languages    72 

The  Yugoslav  Nations   73 

SOCIAL  GROUPS    89 

The  Peasantry    89 

The  Workers    92 

The  Political  Elite  and  Intellectuals   94 

The  Family    97 

URBANIZATION  AND  HOUSING    102 

Housing   102 

Urban  Problems    104 

Guest  Workers   104 

RELIGION    106 

Demography  and  Distribution   107 

Eastern  Orthodoxy    108 

Roman  Catholicism   110 

Islam    112 

Other  Faiths    113 

EDUCATION    113 

History  of  Yugoslav  Education    113 

Primary  Schools    114 

Secondary  Education   115 

Higher  Education    116 

HEALTH  CARE  AND  SOCIAL  WELFARE    116 

Disease  and  Mortality    116 

Development  of  the  Health  Care  System   116 


The  Contemporary  Health  and  Welfare  Systems    ....  117 

viii 


Chapter  3.  The  Economy    121 

Malinda  K.  Goodrich 

ECONOMIC  HISTORY    124 

World  War  II  and  Recovery    124 

Application  of  Stalinist  Economics   124 

The  First  Five-Year  Plan   125 

Launching  Socialist  Self-Management   127 

The  "Perspective"  Five-Year  Plan    127 

Overhaul  in  the  1960s    128 

The  Economic  Reform  of  1965    129 

Adjustments  in  the  1970s   130 

THE  ECONOMIC  MANAGEMENT  MECHANISM    131 

Socialist  Self-Management   131 

Capital  Ownership  and  the  Market   132 

Planning  and  Pricing   134 

Trade  Unions    135 

Government  Revenue  and  Spending   136 

Banking   136 

STRUCTURE  OF  THE  ECONOMY    138 

Labor  and  Unemployment    138 

Industry   139 

Agriculture    144 

Energy  and  Mineral  Resources    146 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications   150 

FOREIGN  TRADE    152 

Historical  Background    152 

Exports  and  Imports    156 

Trading  Partners    157 

Guest  Workers  and  Tourism    160 

Foreign  Exchange    162 

MANAGING  THE  CRISIS  OF  THE  1980s    163 

Inflation  and  Foreign  Debt    163 

Living  Standards    164 

Regional  Disparities    164 

THE  REFORMS  OF  1990    165 

Chapter  4.  Government  and  Politics   169 

Glenn  E.  Curtis 

POLITICAL  EVOLUTION  AFTER  1945    172 

Breaking  with  the  Soviet  Union    173 

The  1963  Constitution   174 

Post-Rankovic  Diversification    175 


ix 


Political  Innovation  and  the  1974  Constitution    176 

The  Early  Post-Tito  Years    180 

Reform  in  the  1980s    180 

The  Leadership  Crisis    183 

GOVERNMENT  STRUCTURE    184 

Federal  Assembly    184 

Federal  Executive  Council   185 

State  Presidency    187 

Court  System    189 

Local  Government  and  the  Communes   190 

NONGOVERNMENTAL  POLITICAL  INSTITUTIONS   ...  192 

League  of  Communists  of  Yugoslavia    192 

Socialist  Alliance  of  Working  People  of  Yugoslavia  ...  197 

Trade  Unions    198 

Youth  League  of  Yugoslavia    199 

Veterans'  Association    199 

REGIONAL  POLITICAL  ISSUES    200 

Slovenia   200 

Serbia    202 

Kosovo    204 

Vojvodina    206 

Croatia    206 

Montenegro   208 

Bosnia  and  Hercegovina    209 

Macedonia   210 

THE  PUBLIC  AND  POLITICAL  DECISION  MAKING    ...  211 

Djilas,  Praxis,  and  Intellectual  Repression    211 

Intellectual  Opposition  Groups    212 

The  Media    213 

Censorship   214 

FOREIGN  POLICY    215 

The  Government  Foreign  Policy  Mechanism    216 

Nonalignment    216 

The  Soviet  Union    218 

The  United  States    218 

European  Neighbors    219 

The  Middle  East  and  Western  Europe    220 

THE  POLITICAL  AGENDA  FOR  THE  1990s    221 

Chapter  5.  National  Security    225 

Karl  Wheeler  Soper 

DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  ARMED  FORCES    228 

Early  Development    228 


x 


World  War  II    229 

Postwar  Development    231 

NATIONAL  DEFENSE    233 

Threat  Perception    233 

Military  Doctrine    235 

Strategy  and  Tactics    236 

DEFENSE  ORGANIZATION    237 

Government  Organization  for  Defense    238 

The  Military  and  the  Party   241 

Armed  Services    243 

Territorial  Defense  Forces    250 

MILITARY  MANPOWER    253 

The  Military  and  Society    253 

Recruitment  and  Service  Obligations    257 

Military  Training  and  Education    259 

Military  Life    261 

Ranks,  Insignia,  and  Uniforms   262 

DEFENSE  AND  THE  NATIONAL  ECONOMY    265 

Military  Budget   266 

Arms  Procurement    267 

FOREIGN  MILITARY  RELATIONS   272 

Warship  Visits   273 

Arms  Sales    273 

Military  Exchanges   274 

INTERNAL  SECURITY   275 

Dissidence    276 

Courts,  Detention,  and  Punishment    278 

Internal  Security  Forces   280 

Organization  for  Internal  Security   282 

The  Military  in  Domestic  Peacekeeping    283 

Appendix.  Tables   287 

Bibliography   303 

Glossary    321 

Index    325 

List  of  Figures 

1  Administrative  Divisions  of  Yugoslavia,  1990    xxii 

2  Military  Frontier  Province  Between  the  Habsburg 

and  Ottoman  Empires,  ca.  1600-1800    14 

3  Expansion  of  Serbia,  1804-1913    20 

4  South  Slav  Territories  at  Formation  of  Yugoslav  State, 

1918-19   30 


XI 


5  Partition  of  Yugoslavia,  1941    38 

6  Topography  and  Drainage    66 

7  Ethnic  Groups    72 

8  Principal  Languages  and  Religions   74 

9  Gross  National  Product  (GNP)  by  Sector,  1975  and 

1988    142 

10  Industrial  Centers  and  Natural  Resources,  1990    148 

11  Transportation  and  Pipeline  Systems,  1990    154 

12  The  Delegate  System  of  Elections,  1990    178 

13  Evolution  of  the  Federal  Parliament  as  of  1990    186 

14  Organization  of  the  Federal  Executive  Council  and 

Administrative  Agencies,  1990    188 

15  Terrain  Considerations  in  Military  Operations   236 

16  Organization  of  the  Armed  Forces,  1990    238 

17  Command  and  Control  of  the  Armed  Forces,  1990    242 

18  Military  Ranks  and  Insignia,  1990    264 


xn 


Preface 


In  the  1980s,  Yugoslavia  passed  through  a  time  of  political,  so- 
cial, and  economic  transition  that  changed  many  of  its  basic  insti- 
tutions and  threatened  the  very  political  structure  of  the  nation. 
Events  occurring  after  the  death  of  Josip  Broz  Tito  in  1980,  and 
especially  those  at  the  end  of  the  1980s,  demanded  a  new  and  up- 
dated version  of  Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study.  Because  Yugoslavia 
was  already  the  most  open  of  East  European  communist  nations, 
large  amounts  of  reliable  information  about  events  there  have  been 
available  throughout  the  post-Tito  period.  A  number  of  useful 
monographs  and  a  host  of  scholarly  articles  and  periodical  reports 
have  provided  the  basis  for  this  new  treatment  of  the  country.  The 
most  useful  of  those  sources  are  cited  at  the  end  of  each  chapter. 

The  authors  of  this  edition  have  described  changes  in  the  last 
ten  years  against  the  historical,  political,  and  social  background 
of  Yugoslavia.  Each  of  the  six  Yugoslav  republics  and  two  provinces 
is  treated  separately  in  some  respects,  because  of  substantial  differ- 
ences in  their  social  and  political  makeup  and  their  history  before 
1918.  The  authors  have  attempted  to  describe  the  centrifugal  im- 
pact of  those  differences  on  the  history  of  the  Yugoslav  state,  and 
especially  on  its  current  condition.  With  that  in  mind,  several  ta- 
bles in  the  Appendix  break  down  ethnographic  and  economic  statis- 
tics by  republic  and  province. 

Yugoslav  personal  names  are  uniformly  rendered  in  the  Latin 
orthography  used  in  Croatia  and  Slovenia,  with  the  single  excep- 
tion that  the  spelling  "dj"  is  used  to  replace  the  single  letter  that 
represents  that  sound  in  the  Croatian  system.  As  was  not  the  case 
in  the  preceding  edition,  diacritics  are  supplied  wherever  appropri- 
ate. The  spelling  of  geographical  names  conforms  to  that  approved 
by  the  United  States  Board  on  Geographical  Names,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  commonly  used  international  spellings  such  as  Belgrade 
(Beograd)  and  Bosnia  (Bosna).  On  maps  English-language  gener- 
ic designations  such  as  river,  plain,  and  mountain  are  used.  Or- 
ganizations commonly  known  by  their  acronyms  (such  as  LCY, 
the  League  of  Communists  of  Yugoslavia)  are  introduced  first  by 
their  full  English  names. 

Measurements  are  given  in  the  metric  system;  a  conversion  ta- 
ble is  provided  in  the  Appendix.  A  glossary  and  a  bibliography 
are  also  included  at  the  end  of  the  book. 


xm 


Country  Profile 


COUNTRY 

Formal  Name:  Socialist  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia. 
Short  Form:  Yugoslavia. 
Term  for  Citizens:  Yugoslav(s). 
Capital:  Belgrade. 

GEOGRAPHY 

Size:  Approximately  255,804  square  kilometers. 

Topography:  Two  principal  regions.  Successive  mountain  ranges 
run  parallel  to  Adriatic  coast,  from  Austrian  border  (northwest) 


xv 


to  Greek  border  (southeast),  occupying  entire  southern  half  of  coun- 
try. Second  major  region  Pannonian  Plains,  occupying  northeast 
section,  extending  from  Austria  (north)  to  Romania  (east). 

Climate:  Generally  temperate  but  varies  from  moderate  Mediter- 
ranean along  Adriatic  coast  to  colder  continental  conditions  in 
mountains  and  plains  of  east-central  and  northern  sections  of 
country. 

SOCIETY 

Population:  1990  estimate  23.5  million;  1990  annual  growth  rate 
0.6  percent;  1988  population  density  92.1  per  square  kilometer. 

Languages:  Serbo-Croatian,  Slovenian,  and  Macedonian  official 
state  languages.  Main  national  minority  languages  Albanian  and 
Hungarian. 

Ethnic  Groups:  Serbs,  Croats,  Muslim  Slavs,  Slovenes,  Macedo- 
nians, and  Montenegrins  (all  ethnically  South  Slavs,  together  con- 
stituting over  80  percent  of  total  population)  the  main  ethnic  groups. 
Albanians  and  Hungarians  (7.7  percent  and  1.9  percent,  respec- 
tively, according  to  1981  census)  the  principal  minority  ethnic  groups. 

Education  and  Literacy:  Education  compulsory  between  ages 
seven  and  fifteen.  Literacy  estimated  at  90  percent  in  1990.  Ex- 
tensive growth  in  education  system  in  post-World  War  II  era 
through  1980;  slower  growth  and  restructuring  in  1980s. 

Health:  Republic  and  province  constitutions  stipulate  universal 
citizen  rights  to  health  care.  General  health  insurance  program  cov- 
ered most  of  population,  with  some  exceptions  in  rural  areas.  Sub- 
stantial expansion  of  health  care  resources  beginning  in  1960s,  but 
disparities  remained  significant  between  rural  and  urban  areas  and 
between  richer  and  poorer  regions. 

Religion:  In  1990  Roman  Catholic  (30  percent),  Serbian  and 
Macedonian  Orthodox  (50  percent),  Muslim  (9  percent),  Protes- 
tant (1  percent),  and  other  (10  percent).  Estimates  of  religious  faiths 
vary  widely. 

ECONOMY 

Gross  National  Product  (GNP):  Estimated  at  US$120.1  billion 
in  1990,  or  US$5,040  per  capita.  Average  growth  rate  0.5  percent 
in  1981-88  period.  Economic  growth  slow  throughout  1980s  be- 
cause of  foreign  debt  and  spiraling  inflation. 


xvi 


Industry  and  Mining:  Largest  sector,  accounting  for  44.6  per- 
cent of  GNP  in  1988.  Relatively  broad  base,  with  substantial 
petrochemical,  metallurgy,  automobile  manufacture,  and  electron- 
ics. Substantial  ferrous  and  nonferrous  mining  industries. 

Agriculture:  Consists  of  small,  highly  developed  social  sector  and 
large  private  sector  (95  percent  of  farm  employment).  Private  farms 
averaged  3.5  hectares  and  fragmented.  Main  crops  corn,  rye,  and 
wheat,  with  variety  of  additional  produce.  Livestock  (pigs,  horses, 
cattle,  and  sheep)  more  important  than  cropping  but  limited  by 
fodder  shortage. 

Energy:  National  energy  shortage  despite  large  deposits  of  low- 
calorie  coal  (lignite)  and  some  crude  oil  and  gas. 

Exports:  US$13  billion  in  1988,  of  which  31  percent  machinery 
and  transportation  equipment,  42  percent  semifinished  and  raw 
materials,  and  9  percent  agricultural  commodities.  Largest  export 
markets  Soviet  Union,  Italy,  West  Germany,  and  United  States. 

Imports:  US$13.6  billion  in  1988,  of  which  46  percent  semifinished 
and  raw  materials,  27  percent  machinery  and  transportation  equip- 
ment, and  6  percent  agricultural  commodities.  Largest  import  sup- 
pliers West  Germany,  Soviet  Union,  Italy,  and  United  States. 

Balance  of  Payments:  Deteriorated  during  1970s  and  1980s.  Re- 
mained serious  constraint  on  growth  in  1980s. 

Exchange  Rate:  New  "heavy"  dinar  established  in  1990,  worth 
10,000  old  dinars;  1990  exchange  rate  fixed  at  7  dinars  per  West 
German  deutsche  mark.  New  rate  January  1991  set  at  YD10.50 
per  US$1. 

Inflation:  In  late  1989  about  1,950  percent;  reduced  to  zero  per- 
cent by  reforms  of  1990. 

Fiscal  Year:  Calendar  year. 

Fiscal  Policy:  Governmental  system  highly  decentralized.  Feder- 
al budget  expenditures,  mainly  for  defense  and  administration, 
about  one-quarter  of  total  public  sector  budgeting.  Economic  re- 
forms of  1990  used  fiscal  policy  to  eliminate  inflation.  Constitu- 
tional amendments  aimed  at  stimulating  private  investment  in 
formerly  state-funded  enterprises. 

TRANSPORTATION  AND  TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

Railroads:  Total  freight  carried  83.6  million  tons  in  1978;  total 
passengers  116  million  in  1988.  In  1990  total  track  about  9,300 


xvn 


kilometers,  of  which  all  was  standard  gauge,  3,800  kilometers  elec- 
trified, and  10  percent  double  track. 

Civil  Aviation:  In  1989  Yugoslav  Air  Transport  operated  291 
domestic  and  international  routes.  Major  international  airports  at 
Belgrade,  Zagreb,  Ljubljana,  Sarajevo,  Skopje,  Dubrovnik,  Split, 
Titograd,  Maribor,  and  Zadar. 

Highways:  120,700  kilometers  total,  all  but  15,100  kilometers  hard 
surface  in  1990.  About  232  million  tons  freight  transported  in  1986. 

Inland  Waterways:  2,600  kilometers  in  1982.  About  16.2  million 
tons  goods  unloaded  in  1988. 

Ports:  Nine  major  ports,  of  which  Rijeka,  Split,  Bar,  and  Ploce 
most  important;  twenty-four  minor  ports.  Total  ocean  freight  34.1 
million  tons  in  1988.  Belgrade  most  important  river  port. 

Pipelines:  2,215  kilometers  for  crude  oil;  2,880  kilometers  for 
natural  gas;  and  150  kilometers  for  refined  products  (1990). 

Telecommunications:  Government-operated  national  direct-dial  tel- 
ephone system,  including  ten  telephones  per  100  residents  in  1982. 
Yugoslav  Radio  and  Television  Network  operated  250  stations,  with 
national  and  local  programming,  in  1986.  Two  satellite  dishes  of 
International  Telecommunications  Satellite  Organization  (Intel- 
sat) located  in  Yugoslavia. 

GOVERNMENT  AND  POLITICS 

Government:  Federal  system  in  which  federal  government  and 
governments  of  six  republics  and  two  provinces  (with  limited 
autonomy)  shared  power  and  authority.  After  death  of  dictator 
Josip  Broz  Tito  in  1980,  head  of  state  began  annual  rotation  among 
members  of  eight-member  State  Presidency.  Federal  Executive 
Council  (FEC)  acted  as  cabinet;  its  president  was  prime  minister 
and  de  facto  head  of  government.  Legislative  branch  was  bicameral 
Federal  Assembly  (Skupstina),  representing  republics  and  social 
organizations.  Decision  making  slow,  often  cumbersome;  proposals 
subject  to  veto  by  republics  whose  interests  were  threatened. 

Politics:  Until  1990,  sole  center  of  political  power  was  League  of 
Communists  of  Yugoslavia  (LCY).  Its  split  along  republic  lines 
coincided  with  growth  of  many  noncommunist  parties,  mostly  re- 
public based,  in  late  1980s.  First  noncommunist  republic  government 


xviii 


elected  in  Croatia  in  1990.  Multiparty  elections  held  in  all  repub- 
lics in  1990. 

Foreign  Relations:  Maintained  nonaligned  international  position 
after  breaking  with  Soviet  Union  in  1948;  remained  a  leader  of 
world  Nonaligned  Movement  through  1980s.  Previously  balanced 
relations  with  Soviet  Union  and  West  tilted  toward  West  after  eco- 
nomic and  political  crises  in  Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Europe  in 
late  1980s. 

International  Agreements  and  Memberships:  Member  of  United 
Nations  and  most  of  its  specialized  agencies.  Observer  status  in 
Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance  (Comecon).  Also  mem- 
ber of  World  Bank,  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  and 
General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade  (GATT). 

NATIONAL  SECURITY 

Armed  Forces:  Yugoslav  People's  Army  (YPA)  included  army, 
air  force,  and  navy,  administered  in  four  military  regions.  In 
mid- 1990  army  numbered  140,000  active-duty  personnel  (of  which 
90,000  conscripts);  air  force,  32,000  (4,000  conscripts);  and  navy, 
10,000  (4,400  conscripts,  900  marines).  Estimated  450,000  reserv- 
ists available  in  wartime.  Paramilitary  Territorial  Defense  Forces 
(TDF)  numbered  1  million  to  3  million  in  1990;  860,000  in  regu- 
lar training.  TDF  largely  funded  by  and  under  peacetime  control 
of  republic  governments;  designated  to  fight  either  independently 
or  under  YPA  command  during  an  invasion. 

Major  Military  Units:  Major  force  structure  change  in  army  in 
1990.  Thirty  brigades  formed,  including  tank,  mechanized,  moun- 
tain infantry,  and  one  airborne  brigade.  Naval  submarines,  cor- 
vettes, and  frigates  centered  in  Adriatic  Fleet,  administered  from 
Split;  smaller  craft  in  both  river  and  Adriatic  commands;  main  mis- 
sion Adriatic  coastal  defense.  Air  force  operated  over  400  combat 
aircraft  (in  twelve  combat  squadrons)  and  200  helicopters.  Main 
missions  of  air  force  to  maintain  air  superiority  over  Yugoslavia 
and  to  support  ground  and  naval  operations.  Substantial  reliance 
on  imported  heavy  military  equipment;  most  aircraft  and  naval 
vessels  manufactured  domestically.  Strong  effort  to  expand  domestic 
arms  industry  in  1980s. 

Military  Budget:  In  1989  defense  expenditures  listed  as  equiva- 
lent of  over  US$4.4  billion,  nearly  7  percent  of  GNP. 

Internal  Security  Forces:  State  Security  Service  (an  intelligence 
and  secret  police  organization)  monitored  emigres  and  domestic 


xix 


dissidents.  People's  Militia  troops  (15,000)  used  to  quell  domestic 
disorders  beyond  control  of  regular  police.  Militia  (regular  police, 
40,000)  used  for  routine  law  enforcement. 


xx 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  1.  Administrative  Divisions  of  Yugoslavia,  1990 


xxii 


Introduction 


BY  1990  YUGOSLAVIA,  "the  land  of  the  South  Slavs,"  had  be- 
come an  international  metaphor  for  ethnic  strife  and  political  frag- 
mentation. Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev  was  described  as  attempting  to 
keep  the  Soviet  Union  from  becoming  a  "giant  Yugoslavia"  when 
Soviet  republics  began  clamoring  for  independence  in  1989.  The 
metaphor  was  based  on  diversity  in  almost  every  aspect  of  Yugo- 
slav national  life — historical  experiences,  standard  of  living,  the 
relationship  of  the  people  to  the  land,  and  religious,  cultural,  and 
political  traditions — among  the  six  republics  and  the  two  provinces 
that  constituted  the  federal  state. 

In  spite  of  ongoing  conflict  and  fragmentation,  many  aspects  of 
life  in  the  country  as  a  whole  underwent  significant  improvement 
in  the  post-World  War  II  period.  A  fundamentally  agrarian  socie- 
ty was  industrialized  and  urbanized,  and  standards  of  living  rose 
dramatically  in  most  regions  between  1945  and  1970.  The  literacy 
rate  increased  steadily,  school  instruction  in  the  country's  several 
minority  languages  became  widespread,  and  the  university  system 
expanded.  A  national  health  care  system  was  developed  to  protect 
most  Yugoslav  citizens,  although  serious  defects  remained  in  rural 
medical  care.  The  traditional  patriarchal  family,  once  the  most  im- 
portant social  institution  in  most  regions,  lost  its  influence  as  Yu- 
goslavs became  more  mobile  and  as  large  numbers  of  women 
entered  the  work  force.  In  these  same  years,  Yugoslavia  adopted 
a  unique  economic  planning  system  (socialist  self-management)  and 
an  independent  foreign  policy  (nonalignment)  to  meet  its  own 
domestic  and  security  needs.  In  these  ways,  by  1980  Yugoslavia 
had  assumed  many  of  the  qualities  of  a  modern  European  state. 
In  the  following  decade,  as  Western  Europe  moved  toward  unifi- 
cation, acceptance  into  the  new  European  community  became  an 
important  national  goal  for  Yugoslavia. 

The  1980s  brought  persistent  challenges  to  the  concept  of  feder- 
ating the  South  Slavs.  Although  the  unlikelihood  of  a  union  be- 
tween "Catholic,  westward-looking  Croatia  and  Slovenia"  and 
"Orthodox,  eastward-looking  Serbia"  had  been  viewed  as  highly 
unlikely  long  before  secession  occurred  and  civil  crisis  escalated 
in  1991,  arguments  for  preserving  at  least  a  loose  Yugoslav  con- 
federation retained  much  of  the  logic  of  earlier  decades.  All  regions 
of  Yugoslavia  were  substantially  interdependent  economically 
throughout  the  postwar  period.  Although  regions  differed  greatly 


xxm 


in  economic  level,  in  1991  many  of  the  most  profitable  markets 
for  all  republics  remained  inside  Yugoslavia.  More  important,  in 
modern  history  only  Montenegro  and  Serbia  had  existed  as  indepen- 
dent states,  and  no  republic  had  been  self-sufficient  since  1918. 

Nevertheless,  in  1991  the  six  republics — Bosnia  and  Hercego- 
vina,  Croatia,  Macedonia,  Montenegro,  Serbia,  and  Slovenia — 
and  the  two  provinces,  Kosovo  and  Vojvodina,  moved  decisively 
away  from  whatever  unity  had  been  achieved  in  the  postwar  peri- 
od. Given  the  lack  of  common  values  between  Orthodox  Serbs  in 
Belgrade  and  Muslim  Slavs  in  Sarajevo,  or  between  private  en- 
trepreneurs in  Slovenia  and  Leninists  in  Montenegro,  many  ex- 
perts argued  that  the  survival  and  modernization  of  the  postwar 
Yugoslav  state  had  been  the  result  of  a  unique,  dominating  perso- 
nality, Josip  Broz  Tito,  whose  regime  had  orchestrated  all  the  so- 
cial, economic,  and  foreign  policy  changes.  According  to  that 
theory,  post-Tito  separation  of  Yugoslavia's  constituent  parts  was 
the  natural  course  of  events. 

The  fall  of  East  European  communism  at  the  end  of  the  1980s 
intensified  the  forces  of  fragmentation  in  Yugoslavia  by  finally 
replacing  the  decrepit  League  of  Communists  of  Yugoslavia 
(LCY — see  Glossary),  which  had  checked  political  expression  of 
ethnic  differences,  with  an  open  system  that  fostered  such  expres- 
sion. But  separation  proved  to  be  no  less  complex  than  continued 
federation.  The  first  obstacle  to  dividing  the  federation  was  dis- 
agreement on  the  identity  of  its  constituent  parts — a  result  of  cen- 
turies of  ethnic  intermixture  and  jurisdictional  shifts.  The  second 
obstacle  was  the  fact  that  the  parts  were  not  only  diverse  but  also 
of  unequal  political  and  economic  stature.  Beginning  in  1990,  the 
Republic  of  Serbia,  still  run  by  a  conventional  communist  regime, 
attempted  to  restrain  fragmentation  by  reviving  its  historical  tradi- 
tion of  geopolitical  dominance  in  the  Balkans.  At  the  same  time, 
the  republics  of  Slovenia  and  Croatia  used  their  economic  superi- 
ority to  seek  independence  on  their  own  terms.  The  less  endowed 
regions,  caught  between  these  contradictory  aims,  took  sides  or  be- 
came pawns.  The  military  and  political  events  of  1991  then  intensi- 
fied the  struggle  of  the  diverse  parts  to  achieve  diverse  aims.  In  the 
struggle,  each  of  the  political  units  had  a  different  stake  in,  and  a 
different  perspective  on,  the  theory  that  a  post-Tito  Yugoslav  fed- 
eration could  work.  Ominously,  the  intractable  fighting  of  1991  be- 
tween Croats  and  Serbs  was  in  many  ways  a  continuation  of  their 
last  bitter  confrontation  in  World  War  II — supporting  doubts  that 
the  Croats  and  Serbs  could  remain  together  in  a  single  political 
structure. 


xxiv 


The  Yugoslav  nation-state  had  begun  as  the  dream  of  nineteenth- 
century  idealists  who  envisioned  a  political  union  of  the  major  South 
Slavic  groups:  the  Croats,  Serbs,  Slovenes,  and  Bulgars.  But  by 
the  twentieth  century,  each  of  those  groups,  as  well  as  a  number 
of  smaller  ethnic  communities  within  their  territories,  had  ex- 
perienced centuries  of  very  diverse  cultural  and  political  influences. 
Under  these  limitations,  the  Kingdom  of  the  Serbs,  Croats,  and 
Slovenes  (later  renamed  the  Kingdom  of  Yugoslavia)  was  formed 
as  a  constitutional  monarchy  after  World  War  I. 

The  interwar  period  was  dominated  by  the  competing  claims  of 
Serbian  and  Croatian  politicians — the  former  dominating  the 
government  and  supporting  a  strong  centralized  state,  the  latter 
agitating  for  regional  autonomy.  King  Aleksandar,  a  genuine  be- 
liever in  the  Yugoslav  ideal,  sought  to  unify  his  country  by  a  vari- 
ety of  political  measures,  including  dictatorship,  but  he  was 
assassinated  in  1934.  Lacking  a  tradition  of  political  compromise 
that  might  forge  a  national  consensus,  Yugoslavia  remained  divided 
as  World  War  II  began.  More  than  three  years  of  Nazi  occupa- 
tion yielded  bloody  fighting  among  three  Yugoslav  factions  as  well 
as  with  the  invaders. 

Two  results  of  that  war  had  particular  impact  on  the  postwar 
condition  of  Yugoslavia.  The  first  was  a  vivid  new  set  of  memories 
to  kindle  hostility  between  Serbs  and  Croats,  the  majority  of  whom 
had  fought  on  opposite  sides  in  the  occupation  years;  the  second 
was  the  emergence  of  the  unifying  war  hero  Tito,  who  became  dic- 
tator of  a  nonaligned  communist  federation.  After  declaring  in- 
dependence from  the  Soviet  alliance  in  1948,  Tito  also  modified 
Yugoslavia's  Stalinist  command  economy  by  giving  local  worker 
groups  limited  control  in  a  self-management  system.  Although  ul- 
timately dominated  by  the  party,  this  system  brought  substantial 
economic  growth  between  the  early  1950s  and  the  1970s  and  made 
Yugoslavia  a  model  for  the  nonaligned  world. 

Two  economic  policies  unknown  in  orthodox  communist  coun- 
tries contributed  greatly  to  this  growth.  Allowing  laborers  to  emi- 
grate to  Western  Europe  as  guest  workers  brought  substantial  hard 
currency  (see  Glossary)  into  Yugoslavia  and  relieved  labor  surpluses 
at  home.  And  opening  the  country's  many  scenic  beaches  and 
mountains  to  Western  tourists  provided  a  second  reliable  source 
of  hard  currency,  which  proved  especially  useful  when  other  parts 
of  the  economy  declined  during  the  1980s. 

In  his  later  years,  Tito  began  restructuring  his  government  to  pre- 
pare it  for  the  post-Tito  era.  The  last  decade  of  the  Tito  regime  paved 
the  way  for  a  power-sharing  government-by-consensus  that  he 
saw  as  the  best  hope  of  binding  the  federation  after  his  regime  ended. 


xxv 


The  1974  Constitution  gave  substantial  new  power  to  the  repub- 
lics, which  obtained  veto  power  over  federal  legislation.  This  tac- 
tic also  kept  Tito's  potential  rivals  within  small  local  fiefdoms, 
denying  them  national  status.  Both  the  government  and  the  rul- 
ing LCY  became  increasingly  stratified  between  federal  and  regional 
organizations;  by  Tito's  later  years,  the  locus  of  political  power 
was  already  diffused. 

In  the  meantime,  in  1966  the  repressive  national  secret  police 
organization  of  Aleksandar  Rankovic  had  been  dismantled,  yield- 
ing political  liberalization  that  led  to  major  outbursts  of  national- 
ism in  Kosovo  (1968)  and  Croatia  (1971).  Although  Tito  quelled 
such  movements,  they  restated  existing  threats  to  a  strong,  Serb- 
dominated  central  government,  a  concept  still  cherished  by  the 
Serbs.  The  1974  Constitution  further  alarmed  the  Serbs  by  giving 
virtual  autonomy  to  Serbia's  provinces,  Kosovo  and  Vojvodina. 

At  Tito's  death  in  1980,  the  promising  Yugoslav  economy  was 
in  decline  because  of  international  oil  crises,  heavy  foreign  bor- 
rowing, and  inefficient  investment  policies.  Economic  reform, 
recognized  throughout  the  1980s  as  an  imperative  step,  was  con- 
sistently blocked  during  that  decade  by  ever  more  diametrically 
opposed  regional  interests  that  found  little  incentive  to  compromise 
in  the  decentralized  post-Tito  federal  structure.  Thus,  Slovenia  and 
Croatia,  already  long  separate  culturally  from  the  rest  of  the  fed- 
eration, came  to  resist  the  central  government  policy  of  redistribut- 
ing their  relatively  great  wealth  to  impoverished  regions  to  the  south. 
By  1990  this  resistance  was  both  economic  (withholding  revenue 
from  the  federal  treasury)  and  political  (threatening  secession  un- 
less granted  substantial  economic  and  political  autonomy  within 
the  federation). 

The  decade  that  followed  the  death  of  Tito  was  a  time  of  gradu- 
al deterioration  and  a  period  that  saw  ethnic  hostility  boiling  just 
below  the  surface  of  the  Yugoslav  political  culture.  The  1980s  in 
Yugoslavia  was  also  a  decade  singularly  lacking  strong  political 
leadership  in  the  Tito  tradition,  even  at  the  regional  level.  When 
the  wave  of  anticommunist  political  and  economic  reform  swept 
Eastern  Europe  in  the  late  1980s,  a  variety  of  noncommunist  par- 
ties challenged  the  monolithic  Yugoslav  communist  system  in  place 
since  1945.  In  1990  the  LCY  gave  up  its  stranglehold  on  national 
political  power.  Long-overdue  economic  reforms  began  promis- 
ingly in  1990  but  then  slowed  abruptly  as  regions  defended  their 
vested  interests  in  the  status  quo.  Meanwhile,  in  1989  the  Serbian 
communist  Slobodan  Milosevic  had  stepped  into  the  Yugoslav  pow- 
er vacuum,  striking  a  note  of  Serbian  national  hegemony  that 


xxvi 


confronted  a  wide  range  of  newly  released  nationalist  forces  in  the 
other  republics. 

The  Yugoslav  republics  were  further  separated  by  their  varied 
reactions  to  the  collapse  of  communism  in  Eastern  Europe.  Already 
pro-Western  and  economically  dissatisfied,  Slovenia  and  Croatia 
were  the  first  republics  to  hold  multiparty  elections  in  early  1990; 
both  elected  noncommunist  republic  governments.  Later  in  1990, 
the  republics  of  Macedonia  and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  followed 
suit,  but  Serbia  and  Montenegro  (Serbia's  most  loyal  ally  in  the 
federation)  gave  decisive  victories  to  the  communists  in  their  repub- 
lic elections.  By  that  time,  the  LCY  had  split  along  republic  lines 
and  renounced  its  role  as  the  leading  institution  in  Yugoslav 
society — a  position  that  since  1945  had  been  the  foundation  of  the 
party's  legitimacy. 

Already  in  the  late  1980s,  a  large  variety  of  small  parties  and 
factions  had  sprouted  throughout  the  country.  These  groups  ad- 
vocated radical,  nationalist,  environmentalist,  regional,  and  reli- 
gious agendas.  By  the  first  republic  elections  in  1990,  some  of  the 
new  parties  had  formed  coalitions.  The  largest  of  these  in  Croa- 
tia, the  right-of-center  Croatian  Democratic  Union,  gained  a  solid 
parliamentary  majority  in  that  republic  under  Franjo  Tudjman, 
who  became  president.  In  Slovenia,  former  communist  Milan  Ku- 
can  reached  the  presidency  as  leader  of  the  diverse  anticommunist 
Demos  coalition.  In  general,  although  parties  with  very  similar 
philosophies  existed  in  two  or  more  republics,  issues  of  nationality 
prevented  the  union  of  such  parties  across  republic  borders. 

Among  Yugoslavia's  postwar  trouble  spots,  the  Serbian  province 
of  Kosovo  was  the  most  enduringly  problematic  both  economical- 
ly and  politically.  Always  the  poorest  region  in  Yugoslavia  (in  spite 
of  significant  mineral  and  fuel  reserves),  Kosovo  also  led  by  a  wide 
margin  in  birth  rates  and  unemployment  rates.  Its  territory  was 
claimed  on  valid  historical  grounds  by  two  fiercely  nationalistic  eth- 
nic groups — the  Kosovo  Albanians  and  the  Serbs.  Although  they 
constituted  a  shrinking  minority  in  Kosovo,  the  Serbs  and  Mon- 
tenegrins controlled  the  province  government  and  suppressed 
separatist  movements  in  the  province — adding  to  the  resentment 
of  the  Albanian  majority.  Sporadic  anti-Yugoslav  propaganda  from 
neighboring  Albania  reminded  the  Kosovo  Albanians  of  their  sub- 
servient position.  Extensive  federal  economic  aid  programs  through- 
out the  1970s  and  1980s  failed  to  eliminate  the  economic  basis  of 
discontent.  In  February  1989,  units  of  the  Yugoslav  People's  Army 
(YPA)  and  the  federal  militia  were  called  in  to  quell  the  violence, 
and  the  province  remained  under  occupation  for  the  next  three 
years. 


xxvn 


The  autonomy  granted  to  Kosovo  in  the  1974  Constitution  was 
virtually  revoked  by  1990.  But  resistance  in  Kosovo  continued.  Al- 
banians boycotted  the  multiparty  Serbian  elections  in  December 
1990,  and  in  1991  students  and  workers  staged  mass  demonstra- 
tions against  Serbianization  of  education  and  workplaces.  Although 
Serbia  had  suspended  the  province  legislature  in  mid- 1990,  Alba- 
nian delegates  and  intellectuals  adopted  a  constitution  for  an  in- 
dependent republic  of  Kosovo,  which  was  ratified  in  a  referendum 
in  September  1991.  Meanwhile,  Serbia  had  amended  its  constitu- 
tion to  abolish  the  remnants  of  self-rule  in  Kosovo  and  in  Serbia's 
second  province,  Vojvodina.  In  1990  drastic  political  reform  in  iso- 
lationist Albania  gave  Kosovo  Albanians  a  new  political  option 
previously  judged  undesirable:  joining  Albania  in  a  union  of  Greater 
Albania.  By  1991  Kosovan  separatist  groups  deemphasized  the  goal 
of  republic  status  within  Yugoslavia  in  favor  of  ethnic  unity  with 
their  fellow  Albanians.  Such  an  eventuality  threatened  to  spark  war 
between  Serbia  and  Albania  as  well  as  conflict  with  Macedonia, 
where  over  25  percent  of  the  population  was  Albanian  in  1991. 

The  chaotic  condition  of  Kosovo  was  a  sensitive  issue  through- 
out postwar  Yugoslav  national  politics.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  issue 
assumed  even  greater  dimensions,  however.  Milosevic  used  the 
threat  of  Albanian  irredentism  in  Kosovo  to  rally  Serbian  ethnic 
pride  behind  his  nationalist  faction  of  the  League  of  Communists 
of  Serbia.  In  doing  so,  he  won  the  presidency  of  Serbia.  By  1990 
this  single-issue  strategy  had  made  Milosevic  the  most  powerful 
political  figure  in  post-Tito  Yugoslavia.  His  open  ambition  for  pow- 
er and  his  assertion  of  Serbian  hegemony  soon  added  Macedonia 
and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  to  the  list  of  republics  opposing  Ser- 
bia in  federal  disputes.  Despite  widely  held  contempt  for  com- 
munism, however,  opposition  within  Serbia  remained  fragmented 
and  ineffectual  until  1991 .  In  the  first  multiparty  elections  in  post- 
war Serbia,  Milosevic  easily  won  reelection  in  December  1990.  Be- 
cause he  controlled  almost  all  the  Serbian  media,  his  campaign  was 
able  to  ignore  the  chaotic  Serbian  economy. 

In  October  1990,  internal  and  external  conditions  caused  Slovenia 
and  Croatia  to  seek  independence  in  some  form.  Accordingly,  the 
two  republics  proposed  that  Yugoslavia  be  restructured  as  a  loose 
confederation  of  states,  each  with  national  sovereignty  and  its  own 
army  and  each  conducting  its  own  foreign  policy.  Following  the 
model  of  the  European  Economic  Community  (EEC — see  Glos- 
sary), the  formula  included  monetary  uniformity  and  a  common 
market.  Serbia  immediately  blocked  the  plan,  arguing  that  the  large 
number  of  Serbs  living  in  republics  other  than  Serbia  would  be- 
come citizens  of  foreign  countries.  Beginning  in  1990,  groups  from 


xxvin 


several  Serbian  enclaves  in  Croatia,  some  of  which  declared  them- 
selves the  Krajina  Serbian  Autonomous  Region  in  March  1991, 
skirmished  with  local  police  and  Croatian  security  forces.  Milo- 
sevic was  suspected  of  giving  this  movement  substantial  encourage- 
ment. By  early  1991,  large  caches  of  illegally  imported  arms  were 
held  by  both  Serbs  and  Croats  in  multiethnic  parts  of  Croatia, 
sharpening  the  threat  of  full-scale  civil  war. 

Complex  population  patterns  had  been  established  in  most  of 
Yugoslavia  by  centuries  of  cultural,  political,  and  military  influences 
from  outside — most  notably  the  settlement  policies  of  the  long- 
dominant  Habsburg  and  Ottoman  empires.  In  fact,  remaining  eth- 
nic patterns  blocked  a  clean  break  from  the  federation  by  any  repub- 
lic except  homogeneous  Slovenia  because  large  populations  would 
be  left  behind  unless  borders  were  substantially  redrawn.  Even  if 
Krajina  had  seceded  from  Croatia  to  join  Serbia,  for  example,  a 
substantial  number  of  Serbs  would  have  remained  scattered  in  the 
Republic  of  Croatia. 

Early  in  1991,  local  conflicts  in  Krajina  brought  threats  from 
Milosevic  to  defend  his  countrymen  from  oppression,  and  tension 
mounted  between  Serbia  and  Croatia.  In  April  1991,  Krajina 
declared  itself  part  of  Serbia;  the  Croats  responded  by  tightening 
economic  pressure  on  the  region  and  by  threatening  to  redraw  their 
own  boundaries  to  include  adjacent  parts  of  Bosnia  inhabited  by 
a  Croatian  majority.  In  early  1991,  however,  moderates  on  both 
sides  managed  to  defuse  numerous  local  crises  and  prevent  a  broader 
conflict. 

Meanwhile,  a  major  indication  of  Serbian  political  diversity  ap- 
peared in  March  1991  when  anticommunist  Serbs  held  a  mass 
demonstration  in  Belgrade  against  the  economic  bungling  and  dic- 
tatorial practices  of  the  Milosevic  government.  When  Milosevic 
demanded  that  the  YPA  quell  the  uprising  in  his  capital,  half  of 
the  eight-member  State  Presidency  of  Yugoslavia  (nominally  com- 
mander in  chief  of  the  armed  forces)  voted  against  the  measure. 
Repeating  his  frequent  claim  that  an  anti-Serb  coalition  was  en- 
dangering Yugoslavia,  Milosevic  secured  the  resignation  of  the  other 
four  members  of  the  State  Presidency  (delegates  from  Serbia,  Mon- 
tenegro, Kosovo,  and  Vojvodina,  all  of  whom  he  controlled).  The 
crisis  peaked  when  YPA  troops  mobilized  but  remained  inactive, 
and  Milosevic  soon  instructed  the  four  delegates  to  resume  their 
positions. 

This  confrontation  seemingly  dealt  Milosevic  a  double  blow: 
recanting  his  position  toward  the  State  Presidency  was  a  major 
retreat  for  this  most  visible  Yugoslav  politician,  and  he  lost  substan- 
tial popularity  among  Serbs  for  his  willingness  to  send  the  military 


xxix 


against  his  own  people.  More  important,  the  largely  peaceful 
demonstrations  set  a  precedent  for  public  discussion  of  issues  in 
Serbia,  temporarily  improving  the  prospects  of  a  viable  multiparty 
system  in  that  republic. 

In  the  months  following  the  Belgrade  demonstrations,  the  Serbs 
adopted  a  more  conciliatory  position  in  State  Presidency- sponsored 
talks  with  representatives  of  the  other  republics  on  loosening  the 
political  structure  of  the  federal  system.  Milosevic  continued  rail- 
ing against  Croatian  nationalist  ambitions,  hoping  to  provoke  an 
incident  that  would  justify  YPA  occupation  of  Croatia.  In  May 
1991 ,  violence  in  Krajina  subsided  when  the  State  Presidency  and 
the  republic  presidents  reached  an  accord  on  jurisdictions  and  bor- 
ders in  areas  disputed  between  Serbs  and  Croats. 

At  the  same  time,  the  Slovenes  and  Croats  had  continued  the 
slow,  steady  brinkmanship  of  their  relations  with  the  federal  govern- 
ment. In  February  1991,  both  republic  assemblies  had  passed  reso- 
lutions to  dissolve  the  Yugoslav  federation  into  separate  states  as 
the  next  step  after  their  1990  declarations  of  the  right  to  secede. 
The  respective  assemblies  also  passed  constitutional  amendments 
declaring  republic  law  supreme  over  federal  law  and  essentially  over- 
riding the  authority  of  the  federal  Constitution. 

Then  in  June  1991 ,  Croatia  and  Slovenia  declared  their  indepen- 
dence, which  set  off  a  new  chain  of  events.  Under  orders  from  the 
Serb-dominated  federal  Secretariat  for  National  Defense  but  without 
approval  of  the  State  Presidency,  YPA  units  occupied  strategic 
points  in  Slovenia  on  the  pretext  of  defending  Yugoslav  territorial 
integrity  against  an  illegal  secession.  After  encountering  unexpect- 
edly stiff  resistance  from  Slovenian  territorial  defense  forces,  the 
YPA  withdrew  from  Slovenian  territory.  YPA  embarrassment  at 
this  military  failure  was  only  partially  averted  by  a  three-month 
cease-fire  arranged  by  the  European  Community  (EC — see  Glos- 
sary). When  Slovenia  reasserted  its  independence  at  the  end  of  that 
time,  the  YPA  made  no  response. 

The  cease-fire  in  Slovenia  moved  the  conflict  decisively  from 
Slovenia  to  Croatia.  Croatia's  declaration  of  independence  ena- 
bled Milosevic  to  strengthen  his  position  as  defender  of  the  Serbi- 
an minority  in  Croatia,  which  now  seemed  poised  to  absorb  its  Serbs 
into  a  separate  state.  Under  the  banner  of  anti-Croatian  Serbian 
nationalism,  economic  failures  and  internal  political  differences  be- 
came secondary;  Milosevic  abandoned  his  conciliatory  approach 
and  regained  his  political  foothold. 

The  first  phase  of  the  1991  Serb-Croat  conflict  pitted  Serbian 
guerrillas  against  Croatian  militia  in  the  regions  of  Croatia  with 
large  Serbian  populations.  The  YPA  intervened,  ostensibly  as  a 


xxx 


peacekeeping  force  preventing  a  wider  conflict.  The  YPA  role  soon 
evolved  into  one  of  support  for  the  Serbs  and  then  into  active  oc- 
cupation of  Croatian  territory,  with  no  pretense  of  neutrality.  Croa- 
tian forces  besieged  and  captured  YPA  warehouses  and  garrisons, 
somewhat  improving  their  decidedly  inferior  military  position. 
Through  the  summer  and  fall  of  1991,  prolonged,  sometimes  siege- 
like battles  raged  in  Croatia  between  Serbian  guerrillas  and  the 
YPA  on  one  side  and  the  Croatian  militia  on  the  other.  The  areas 
of  heaviest  fighting  were  the  population  centers  of  Slavonia  in 
eastern  Croatia  and  the  ports  along  the  Adriatic  coastline.  Between 
August  and  December,  fourteen  cease-fires  were  arranged  but  were 
shortly  violated  by  both  sides.  The  EC,  which  feared  the  spread 
of  ethnic  conflict  into  other  parts  of  Europe,  arranged  most  of  those 
agreements;  Gorbachev  was  the  broker  of  one.  An  estimated  10,000 
people,  the  majority  of  them  Croats,  were  killed  in  the  conflict  in 
the  last  four  months  of  1991,  and  about  600,000  people  became 
refugees.  During  most  of  that  time,  Serbian  and  YPA  forces  oc- 
cupied about  one-third  of  Croatia. 

Throughout  the  political  and  economic  turmoil  of  the  late  1980s 
and  1990,  two  national  institutions  survived:  the  YPA  and  the  fed- 
eral government.  After  World  War  II,  the  YPA  had  played  the 
theoretical  role  of  defender  of  the  country's  vaunted  independent 
international  position  against  attack  from  east  or  west.  The  YPA 
remained  a  bastion  of  conservative  political  influence  after  Cold 
War  threats  subsided  and  after  electoral  and  legislative  setbacks 
had  sapped  the  unifying  power  of  the  LCY  in  1990. 

Led  by  an  officer  corps  heavily  Serbian  and  Montenegrin,  the 
YPA  took  a  dim  view  of  rampant  political  diversification  that  threat- 
ened the  power  of  the  central  government.  Especially  troubling  were 
Slovenian  and  Croatian  assertions  of  republic  sovereignty  over  lo- 
cal military  units,  which  threatened  the  very  existence  of  the  YPA 
organization.  The  failure  of  the  old  system  also  threatened  the  life- 
style of  the  YPA  officer  corps,  which  had  enjoyed  privileges  such 
as  summer  houses  on  the  Adriatic  and  generous  pensions  as  part 
of  their  elite  status  in  Yugoslav  society. 

Several  times  in  1990  and  early  1991,  Serbian  and  federal  offi- 
cials threatened  to  use  YPA  troops  to  restore  order  or  protect  fed- 
eral property.  In  January  1991,  Defense  Secretary  Veljko  Kadijevic, 
a  Serb,  threatened  to  send  YPA  forces  into  Croatia  when  that  repub- 
lic formed  its  own  military  establishment,  and  in  March  YPA  units 
confronted  mass  demonstrations  in  Belgrade.  After  preliminary 
mobilization  in  the  Belgrade  crisis,  a  divided  high  command  an- 
nounced that  it  would  not  intervene  in  political  disputes  unless  armed 
conflict  erupted  in  one  of  the  republics.  Although  this  statement 


xxxi 


deferred  the  often-mentioned  scenario  of  a  military  coup  to  hold 
the  nation  together,  in  the  spring  of  1991  the  YPA  intervened  in 
dozens  of  battles  between  separatist  Serbs  and  Croatian  authori- 
ties in  Croatia. 

Forces  of  change  began  to  affect  the  YPA  by  1990.  Disintegra- 
tion of  the  LCY  removed  the  ideological  unity  of  the  YPA  (whose 
political  power  had  been  exercised  through  representation  in  party 
organizations)  and  negated  its  role  as  defender  of  the  ruling  party. 
LCY  activity  in  the  army  was  officially  outlawed  in  late  1990,  and 
all  political  organization  in  the  military  was  to  be  banned  in  1991 
legislation.  One  response  to  depolitization  was  the  formation  in 
November  1990  of  the  League  of  Communists  of  Yugoslavia- 
Movement  for  Yugoslavia  by  a  group  of  retired  YPA  officers  to 
replace  the  old  LCY  as  an  advocate  of  preserving  the  existing  fed- 
eral structure.  This  party  advocated  continued  socialism  and  con- 
demned Slovenia  and  Croatia  as  capitalist  puppets. 

In  February  1991 ,  Slovenia  and  Croatia  proposed  that  new,  depo- 
liticized  professional  military  organizations  be  formed  in  each  repub- 
lic, and  the  two  republics  announced  that  they  would  slash  sup- 
port for  the  national  military  budget.  At  the  same  time,  federal 
military  spending  decreased  because  of  budget  deficits,  and  the  relia- 
bility of  conscripts  from  Kosovo  and  other  areas  came  increasing- 
ly into  question.  All  republics  save  Serbia  and  Montenegro  refused 
to  provide  recruits  for  the  1991  YPA  action  in  Croatia;  when  draft 
evasion  became  a  problem  even  in  Serbia,  the  long-term  future 
of  the  YPA  became  doubtful.  Although  the  YPA  was  the  fifth-largest 
armed  force  in  Europe  in  1991 ,  its  command  structure  and  resource 
base  were  shown  to  be  unreliable  in  combat.  Nevertheless,  as  the 
authority  of  the  Yugoslav  federal  government  dwindled  and  ar- 
bitration of  disputes  faltered,  the  on-site  power  of  the  military  often 
negated  the  civilian  authority  meant  to  restrain  it.  The  unpredic- 
tability of  YPA  forces  became  a  major  obstacle  for  United  Nations 
(UN)  diplomats  seeking  an  effective  cease-fire  between  Serbian  and 
Croatian  forces  at  the  end  of  1991. 

Economic  reform  remained  a  critical  national  and  regional  need 
in  1991.  When  economist  Ante  Markovic  became  prime  minister 
at  the  end  of  1989,  he  inherited  an  inflation  rate  that  had  reached 
2,600  percent  that  year  and  a  national  average  personal  income 
that  had  sunk  to  1960s  levels.  Markovic's  two-step  program  be- 
gan with  harsh  measures,  such  as  closing  unproductive  plants,  freez- 
ing wages,  and  instituting  a  tight  monetary  policy  to  clear  away 
the  remainder  of  the  moribund  state-subsidized  system  as  soon  as 
possible.  Markovic  also  avidly  sought  new  economic  ties  with 


xxxn 


Western  Europe  to  reinvigorate  Yugoslavia's  traditional  policy  of 
multilateral  trade. 

Once  inflation  had  been  curbed,  phase  two  (July  1990)  continued 
tight  monetary  control  but  sought  to  spur  lagging  productivity  by 
encouraging  private  and  foreign  investment  and  unfreezing  wages. 
Markovic  applied  his  plan  doggedly,  convincing  the  Federal  As- 
sembly (Skupstina)  to  pass  most  of  its  provisions.  He  was  aided 
by  the  lack  of  workable  alternatives  among  his  critics,  by  the  in- 
ternational credibility  of  his  consultation  with  economists  of  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — see  Glossary),  and  by  his  per- 
sonal popularity.  Inflation  ended  when  the  dinar  (for  value  of  the 
dinar — see  Glossary)  was  pegged  to  the  deutsche  mark  in  Decem- 
ber 1989,  and  new  foreign  loans  and  joint  ventures  in  1990  im- 
proved capital  investment. 

Although  the  end  of  inflation  was  very  popular,  however,  plant 
closure  and  wage  freezes  were  decidedly  not  so  in  regions  where 
as  many  as  80  percent  of  plants  were  kept  running  only  because 
of  state  subsidies.  The  Serbs  opposed  the  plan  from  the  beginning 
because  their  communist-dominated  industrial  management  sys- 
tem was  still  in  place,  meaning  that  a  new  market  economy  would 
threaten  many  privileged  positions.  The  Slovenes  resented  feder- 
alization of  their  funds  to  help  run  the  program.  In  all  republics, 
the  immediate  threat  of  mass  unemployment  blunted  the  drive  to 
privatize  and  to  peg  wages  to  productivity.  As  in  previous  years, 
the  republics  saw  a  threat  to  their  autonomy  if  they  acceded  to  the 
requirements  of  such  a  sweeping  federal  program.  By  the  fall  of 
1990,  the  optimism  of  Markovic's  first  stage  was  replaced  by  the 
realization  that  many  enterprises  throughout  the  country  either 
could  not  or  would  not  discontinue  their  inefficient  operations  and 
would  remain  socially  owned.  Several  major  industries  in  Slove- 
nia and  Croatia  were  also  still  state  controlled  in  1991,  although 
both  republics  drafted  privatization  laws  that  year. 

The  Serbian  economy  continued  to  decline  at  an  especially  rapid 
rate  after  the  Markovic  reforms.  In  December  1990,  the  Serbian 
government  illegally  transferred  US$1 .3  billion  from  the  National 
Bank  of  Yugoslavia  to  bolster  the  sagging  republic  economy — 
defying  federal  economic  authority,  further  alienating  the  other 
republics,  and  exposing  the  failure  of  reform  in  the  Yugoslav  bank- 
ing system. 

The  proportion  of  unprofitable  enterprises  in  the  national  econ- 
omy (about  one-third)  did  not  change  between  1989  and  1990.  By 
1991  bankruptcy  declarations  by  such  firms  had  virtually  ceased. 
Strikes  decreased  only  slightly  from  a  1989  high  of  1 ,900.  A  wave 
of  strikes,  mostly  by  blue-collar  workers,  slowed  the  economy  in 


xxxiii 


all  regions  of  Yugoslavia  at  the  end  of  1990.  At  that  point,  infla- 
tion had  risen  to  118  percent  per  year  and  was  expected  to  con- 
tinue to  rise  into  1991,  spurred  by  the  Serbian  bank  transaction 
and  unauthorized  printing  of  money  by  republics  in  the  last  half 
of  1990.  In  mid- 1991  inflation  rose  further  when  the  federal  govern- 
ment began  printing  more  money  to  cover  escalating  military  costs. 
By  that  time,  the  government  had  lost  control  of  federal  tax 
revenues,  which  were  collected  by  the  republics.  Unemployment 
was  close  to  25  percent  in  January  1991,  and  no  improvement  in 
the  standard  of  living  was  foreseen  in  the  near  future.  Industrial 
production  that  month  was  down  18.2  percent  from  January  1990, 
the  greatest  such  drop  in  forty  years.  The  failure  to  devise  a  new 
banking  system  after  the  previous  system  collapsed  increased  black 
market  financial  activity  and  discouraged  guest  workers  abroad  from 
making  deposits. 

Markovic  warned  consistently  that  continued  chaos  jeopardized 
economic  reform  and  ultimately  the  federation  itself.  The  IMF, 
for  example,  had  joined  the  EEC  in  offering  a  combined  loan  of 
US$2  billion  in  early  1991,  but  continued  unrest  threatened  that 
vital  arrangement.  Already  in  January  1991,  the  EEC  postponed 
consideration  of  membership  for  Yugoslavia  because  of  the  inter- 
nal situation.  In  early  1991,  the  United  States  cited  human  rights 
violations  in  Kosovo  in  threatening  to  end  all  bilateral  economic 
aid.  In  the  fall  of  1991,  the  United  States,  the  Soviet  Union,  and 
the  EEC  all  threatened  economic  sanctions  if  diplomacy  did  not 
replace  armed  conflict  in  the  Croatian  crisis.  The  United  States 
adopted  sanctions  against  all  the  republics,  but  the  EEC  excluded 
Slovenia  and  Croatia. 

Already  seriously  undermined  by  the  constitutional  power  of  the 
republics,  the  Yugoslav  federal  government  apparatus  was  com- 
pletely overshadowed  in  1991.  In  December  1990,  the  Markovic 
cabinet  had  drafted  an  eleven-point  emergency  program  of  basic 
legislation  to  keep  the  federation  running  until  the  State  Presiden- 
cy could  agree  on  political  reform.  Four  months  later,  however, 
the  Federal  Assembly  was  still  debating  some  of  those  laws.  Mar- 
kovic faced  a  delicate  balance  between  using  federal  authority  to 
hold  the  country  together  and  heeding  the  demands  of  the  econom- 
ically vital  Slovenes  and  Croats  to  loosen  the  federation.  In  early 
1991,  Markovic  criticized  those  republics  for  arming  separate 
paramilitary  forces  and  passing  resolutions  of  separation  from  Yu- 
goslavia. By  April  1991,  a  substantial  movement  in  the  Federal 
Assembly  sought  to  unseat  Markovic  as  prime  minister.  But  the 
economic  ties  he  had  formed  with  the  West  were  correctly  seen  by 
many  politicians  as  the  best  way  to  save  the  Yugoslav  economy, 


xxxiv 


and  Markovic  remained  because  his  ouster  would  likely  end  the 
prospect  for  such  aid. 

Unlike  most  countries  of  Eastern  Europe,  Yugoslavia  had  be- 
gun major  economic  reform  before  making  any  changes  in  govern- 
ment structure.  A  round  of  constitutional  amendments  in  1990  dealt 
only  with  economic  matters,  leaving  political  power  relationships 
untouched.  Although  Markovic  had  planned  to  call  elections  for 
a  Federal  Assembly  to  begin  work  on  a  new  constitution  in  1990, 
he  achieved  no  consensus  on  the  timing  or  form  of  those  elections. 
Among  other  changes,  the  new  constitution  presumably  would  have 
revamped  Tito's  unworkable  system  of  rotating  chief  executives. 
In  March  1991,  special  "professional  working  groups,"  includ- 
ing members  from  each  republic,  began  drafting  for  the  State 
Presidency  proposals  on  political  and  economic  issues  for  possible 
use  as  constitutional  amendments.  The  first  proposal  outlined  a 
new  federal  structure;  the  second  proposed  a  new  procedure  for 
a  republic  to  secede  from  the  federation — two  of  the  most  volatile 
issues  of  the  "transformation  period." 

The  weakness  of  the  national  executive  structure  was  revealed 
by  the  Belgrade  demonstrations,  when  the  eight-member  State 
Presidency  was  essentially  obliterated  by  walkouts  and  resignations 
orchestrated  by  Milosevic.  After  the  full  membership  was  reestab- 
lished, fruitless  constitutional  discussions  and  "summit  meetings" 
further  damaged  confidence  in  the  State  Presidency.  By  July  1991 , 
unauthorized  YPA  actions  in  Slovenia  and  Croatia  had  removed 
de  facto  command  of  the  military  from  the  State  Presidency,  and 
national  executive  authority  had  virtually  disappeared. 

The  events  of  1991  forced  all  the  republics  to  adjust  their  posi- 
tions and  defend  their  own  interests  first,  lessening  the  probability 
of  reversing  regionalization  and  reestablishing  a  credible  federal 
government  backed  by  a  reframed  constitution.  The  diametrical- 
ly opposed  political  blueprints  of  the  centralist  republics  (Serbia 
and  Montenegro)  and  the  autonomist  republics  (Slovenia  and  Croa- 
tia, later  joined  by  Macedonia  and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina)  meant 
that  any  attempt  to  redistribute  power  was  very  likely  to  be  dead- 
locked. 

While  Serbia,  Croatia,  and  Slovenia  occupied  center  stage  in 
1991,  the  other  three  republics — Montenegro,  Macedonia,  and  Bos- 
nia and  Hercegovina — divided  their  attention  between  local  eco- 
nomic and  social  problems  and  the  transformation  crisis  of  the 
federation.  After  moving  gradually  toward  supporting  republic 
sovereignty,  Macedonia  and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  were  forced 
by  circumstances  in  the  fall  of  1991  to  declare  their  own  indepen- 
dence. Montenegro  remained  allied  with  Serbia  in  support  of  a 


xxxv 


strong  central  government.  Unlike  Slovenia  and  Croatia,  those 
republics  had  little  hope  of  surviving  independently,  and  all  con- 
tained precariously  balanced  ethnic  mixtures  (the  Montenegrin 
population  included  a  total  of  20  percent  Albanians  and  Muslim 
Slavs). 

In  December  1990,  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  elected  a  multiparty 
assembly  in  which  the  noncommunist  Muslim  Party  for  Democratic 
Action  (PDA)  won  a  plurality  of  the  240  seats,  and  PDA  president 
Alija  Izetbegovic  became  the  first  noncommunist  president  of  the 
republic.  The  new  assembly  contained  an  ethnic  mix  representa- 
tive of  the  overall  population:  99  Muslim  Slavs,  83  Serbs,  and  50 
Croats.  Peaceful  transition  to  a  multiparty  system  in  1990  was  con- 
sidered a  triumph  of  the  three  major  ethnic  parties  and  a  promis- 
ing indication  that  coalition  building  among  them  might  work.  In 
discussing  the  republic's  position  on  a  new  federal  structure  in  early 
1991,  the  Serbian  party  advocated  more  centralism;  the  other  two 
parties  followed  the  Croatian  and  Slovenian  recipe  for  a  loose  con- 
federation. In  the  first  year  of  his  presidency,  Izetbegovic  was  a 
strong  voice  of  conciliation  on  national  constitutional  issues,  at- 
tempting to  preserve  political  relations  with  all  factions. 

Because  of  its  ethnic  makeup,  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  was  a 
central  point  of  contention  between  Serbs  and  Croats.  Both  sides 
had  substantial  territorial  claims  that  threatened  to  destabilize  the 
republic's  internal  politics.  Serbs  feared  that  Croatia  would  take 
Croatian-dominated  parts  of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  with  it  if  it 
seceded;  Croats  feared  leaving  those  parts  to  the  mercy  of  the  Serbs. 
The  Muslim  Slavs,  in  turn,  remembered  that  Croatia  and  Serbia 
had  split  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  between  them  before  World  War 
II,  so  the  Muslim  Slavs  feared  reabsorption  into  those  states.  With- 
in the  six-member  republic  presidency,  accusations  and  threats 
mimicked  those  exchanged  by  the  factions  in  the  federal  executive 
branch. 

In  mid- 1991  the  central  location  of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  be- 
tween Serbia  and  Croatia  threatened  to  make  it  a  second  major 
military  front  in  the  Serb-Croat  confrontation.  When  Croatian  and 
Muslim  Slav  legislators  sought  to  avoid  a  Serbian  takeover  by 
declaring  the  sovereignty  of  the  republic  in  October,  they  an- 
tagonized their  Serbian  counterparts  and  exacerbated  the  threat 
of  civil  war.  By  that  time,  a  large  part  of  the  population  was  armed 
and  in  the  same  explosive  state  as  were  the  Serbian  enclaves  in 
Croatia  a  few  months  earlier. 

Macedonia,  least  developed  of  the  six  republics,  began  1991  in 
worsening  economic  condition  (official  unemployment  was  26  per- 
cent, but  likely  much  higher  in  reality,  and  per  capita  earnings 


xxxvi 


were  70  percent  of  the  national  average)  and  with  new  manifesta- 
tions of  old  problems:  nationalism  and  ethnic  tension.  Politically, 
Macedonia  had  supported  the  Markovic  economic  reforms  whole- 
heartedly; in  the  republic  elections  of  November  1990,  all  six  major 
party  platforms  advocated  a  multiparty  parliamentary  system  and 
a  market  economy.  In  voting  for  their  reconfigured  unicameral  as- 
sembly of  120,  Macedonians  gave  a  plurality  to  the  noncommu- 
nist  nationalist  coalition  Internal  Macedonian  Revolutionary 
Organization-Democratic  Party  for  National  Unity,  with  the 
League  of  Communists  of  Macedonia  a  close  second  among  the 
sixteen  parties  that  posted  candidates. 

Anticommunism  was  much  weaker  in  Macedonia  than  in  Croatia 
and  Slovenia.  In  1945  Tito's  recognition  of  Macedonia  as  a  republic 
had  freed  the  Macedonians  from  Serbian  control  and  inspired  strong 
loyalty  to  the  Yugoslav  federation.  Nevertheless,  in  December  1990 
a  number  of  Macedonian  leaders,  including  Macedonia's  delegate 
to  the  State  Presidency,  Vasil  Tupurkovski,  and  Ljupco  Georgiev- 
ski,  head  of  the  nationalist  coalition,  expressed  solidarity  with  Slove- 
nian and  Croatian  declarations  of  autonomy.  At  the  same  time, 
however,  they  cautioned  that  Macedonia  was  not  ready  for  such 
a  move.  Because  Macedonians  had  been  treated  as  Serbs  (and 
Macedonia  had  been  part  of  Serbia)  before  World  War  II,  the  ag- 
gressive nationalism  of  Milosevic  brought  alarm  and  hostility  that 
was  intensified  by  a  new  wave  of  Macedonian  nationalism.  Begin- 
ning in  November  1988,  a  series  of  mass  demonstrations  demand- 
ed that  Macedonia's  Balkan  neighbors,  Greece  and  Bulgaria, 
recognize  Macedonia's  status  as  a  Yugoslav  republic  (they  had  not 
done  so  because  those  countries  had  long-standing  claims  to  parts 
of  Macedonia)  and  treat  their  own  Macedonian  citizens  as  a  separate 
minority.  A  significant  faction  in  the  republic  advocated  reunit- 
ing the  Macedonians  of  all  three  countries  in  a  new  political  entity. 

Another  ethnic  issue  also  festered  in  1991.  The  illegal  influx  of 
as  many  as  150,000  Albanian  refugees  from  Kosovo  to  Macedo- 
nia brought  resentment  and  calls  for  closing  the  borders.  Especially 
in  Skopje,  Albanians  were  refused  status  as  a  separate  nationality 
and  barred  from  some  types  of  employment;  demonstrations  were 
forbidden.  But  the  Albanian  Party  for  Democratic  Prosperity  elected 
seventeen  delegates  to  the  Macedonian  assembly  in  the  1990  repub- 
lic election.  This  significant  departure  from  the  total  repression  of 
the  former  communist  regime  in  Macedonia  brought  hope  that 
Albanian- Slav  hostility  would  not  spill  over  from  Kosovo  into 
Macedonia. 

Montenegro  had  been  the  first  Yugoslav  republic  where  com- 
munist leaders  held  talks  with  the  political  opposition;  in  January 


xxxvii 


1990,  Montenegro  proposed  a  nationwide  multiparty  system  for 
Yugoslavia.  The  talks  grew  out  of  the  "Montenegrin  Uprising" 
of  1989,  in  which  mass  demonstrations  unseated  the  entire  com- 
munist leadership  and  replaced  it  with  a  generation  of  younger  com- 
munists seen  as  antibureaucratic  reformers.  But  reformist  zeal 
decreased  in  the  next  two  years;  republic  multiparty  elections  were 
finally  held  in  December  1990,  but  the  League  of  Communists  of 
Montenegro  won  86  of  the  125  assembly  seats  in  a  process  marked 
by  controversy  and  irregularities.  Its  candidate,  Momir  Bulato- 
vic,  was  elected  president.  Of  the  seven  parties  posting  candidates 
in  the  election,  four  won  seats. 

In  the  first  multiparty  election,  the  major  Montenegrin  parties 
agreed  on  several  key  positions:  a  sovereign  Montenegro  within 
a  united  Yugoslav  federation;  conversion  to  a  market  economy, 
with  partial  or  complete  rejection  of  socialism;  and  integration  of 
Yugoslavia  into  the  EEC .  Issues  of  dispute  were  the  nature  and 
pace  of  economic  reform,  the  structure  of  the  new  federal  Yugo- 
slavia, and  the  advisable  strategy  for  Montenegro  should  the 
federation  dissolve.  In  spite  of  the  reformist  tendency  of  Montene- 
grin communists,  the  republic  backed  Milosevic  in  most  of  his  dis- 
putes with  the  northern  republics.  In  March  1991,  Prime  Minister 
Milo  Djukanovic  of  Montenegro  joined  Milosevic  in  a  statement 
that  expressed  identical  goals  for  Yugoslavia  as  a  federation  and 
for  their  respective  republics.  In  the  second  half  of  1991,  Mon- 
tenegro supported  the  Serbian  diplomatic  and  military  positions 
against  Croatia,  and  YPA  troops  staged  maneuvers  against  Croa- 
tia's Adriatic  coastal  cities  from  bases  in  Montenegro. 

October  31,  1991 

In  the  months  following  completion  of  this  manuscript,  Serbian 
guerrillas  and  YPA  forces  continued  to  advance  into  Croatia  and 
pound  Croatian  strongholds  in  Vukovar,  Dubrovnik,  Osijek,  and 
other  locations.  Vukovar,  in  northeastern  Croatia,  was  designat- 
ed for  all-out  defense  by  the  Croats;  after  intense  bombardment 
and  almost  complete  destruction,  the  city  surrendered  in  Novem- 
ber. The  medieval  structures  of  Dubrovnik  were  threatened  by 
heavy  Serbian  bombardment,  arousing  international  protest.  Croa- 
tian blockades  of  YPA  garrisons  and  ostensible  Croatian  atroci- 
ties were  the  pretext  for  continued  YPA  action  at  the  same  time 
as  Croatia  requested  that  the  EC  or  the  UN  negotiate  a  settlement. 


xxxvin 


De  facto  control  of  the  YPA  came  into  question  in  November,  when 
Milosevic  and  Tudjman  both  requested  that  a  UN  peacekeeping 
force  separate  the  two  sides,  but  continued  fighting  prevented  such 
a  force  from  being  deployed.  The  failure  of  EC -arranged  cease- 
fires between  October  and  December  brought  speculation  that  the 
YPA  was  fighting  independently  for  its  own  survival,  beyond  the 
control  of  either  the  federal  government  or  Milosevic's  Serbian 
government.  YPA  spokesmen  admitted  that  some  units  were  mov- 
ing outside  the  central  command.  Meanwhile,  maintenance  of  the 
YPA  effort  put  new  stress  on  the  already  staggering  national 
economy. 

No  agency  of  the  federal  government  asserted  influence  over  the 
struggle  in  Croatia  at  the  end  of  1991 .  The  State  Presidency,  nomi- 
nally in  command  of  the  YPA,  lost  its  last  vestige  of  ethnic  balance 
when  Croat  Stipe  Mesic  resigned  his  position  as  president  of  the 
State  Presidency  in  December,  leaving  the  national  executive  in 
the  hands  of  pro-Serbian  delegates.  In  November  one  chamber  of 
the  Federal  Assembly  voted  no  confidence  in  Prime  Minister  Mar- 
kovic,  and  the  second  chamber  threatened  to  force  his  resignation 
by  following  suit.  Markovic  resigned  in  December  to  protest  the 
proposed  1992  "war  budget,"  over  80  percent  of  which  was  desig- 
nated for  the  military. 

Thus,  control  of  events  moved  even  further  from  the  center  to 
the  republics,  which  showed  no  inclination  to  cede  autonomy  for 
the  sake  of  reestablishing  a  credible  central  government.  Instead, 
distrust  and  mutual  hostility  grew  as  each  jurisdiction  protected 
its  own  interests  in  the  new  power  vacuum.  Slovenia  and  Croatia 
entered  1992  anticipating  recognition  of  their  independence  by  the 
EC,  while  Montenegro,  the  strongest  backer  of  Serbian  military 
action  in  Croatia,  established  an  independent  position  in  favor  of 
a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  national  crisis.  In  October  Montenegro 
split  from  Serbia  by  supporting  an  EC  call  for  transformation  of 
Yugoslavia  into  an  association  of  sovereign  republics. 

Croatia,  meanwhile,  had  pressed  hard  for  EC  recognition  as  a 
key  step  toward  gaining  UN  membership  and  full  national  status 
in  possible  UN-sponsored  negotiations  with  the  Serbs.  In  Decem- 
ber 1991,  the  EC,  under  strong  pressure  from  Germany,  announced 
that  it  would  recognize  the  independence  of  Slovenia,  Croatia,  and 
any  other  Yugoslav  republic  satisfying  human  rights  and  political 
requirements;  the  EC  also  officially  named  Serbia  the  aggressor 
in  the  Croatian  conflict.  Some  EC  members  and  the  United  States, 
however,  feared  that  de  jure  Croatian  independence  would  fur- 
ther inflame  the  conflict  with  Serbia  or  extend  it  into  multiethnic 
Bosnia  and  Hercegovina. 


xxxix 


Milosevic  reacted  to  the  EC  announcement  by  issuing  charges 
that  German  expansionist  ambitions  were  behind  the  EC  position 
and  that  international  recognition  of  Yugoslav  republics  would  ex- 
pand the  civil  war.  At  the  end  of  1991,  Serbia  sought  to  consoli- 
date the  advantages  gained  in  recent  months  by  settling  Serbs  in 
areas  deserted  by  their  Croatian  populations,  and  plans  were  an- 
nounced to  make  Krajina  a  separate  Yugoslav  republic. 

At  the  beginning  of  1992,  most  of  Yugoslavia's  major  political 
and  economic  questions  remained  unanswered.  One  republic, 
Slovenia,  seemingly  had  enough  resources  and  a  geopolitical  posi- 
tion suitable  to  survival  as  an  independent  state.  In  1991  it  had 
already  strengthened  cultural  and  economic  relations  with  West 
European  nations,  especially  Austria  and  Germany,  and  had  shed 
many  of  the  remnants  of  the  old  Yugoslav  centralized  economic 
system — steps  that  promised  rapid  integration  into  Western  mar- 
ket systems.  In  1991  Slovenian  officials,  especially  Foreign  Secre- 
tary Dimitrij  Rupel,  traveled  widely  in  the  West  to  overcome 
international  reluctance  to  recognize  Slovenia.  When  initial  Ser- 
bian resistance  to  its  independence  ended,  Slovenia  was  complete- 
ly free  of  political  obligations  to  the  Yugoslav  federation. 

Croatia,  with  its  long  history  of  nationalist  independence  move- 
ments and  a  relatively  prosperous  economy,  remained  entangled 
in  the  militant  demands  of  its  Serbian  minority  and  ultranation- 
alist  Croats,  its  economy  disrupted  by  the  Serbian  occupation,  de- 
struction of  urban  centers,  and  a  massive  refugee  movement.  A 
substantial  radical  nationalist  faction  threatened  to  overthrow  Tudj- 
man  if  he  reached  a  compromise  peace  agreement  with  Serbia.  This 
meant  that  the  policy-making  alternatives  of  both  Tudjman  and 
Milosevic  were  narrowed  by  the  extremist  sentiments  they  them- 
selves had  aroused.  Nevertheless,  Croatia's  hopes  for  true  indepen- 
dence rested  on  international  mediation  in  1992  of  its  thorny 
territorial  disputes  with  Serbia.  Following  the  fifteenth  cease-fire, 
imposed  in  December  1991,  Serbia  and  the  YPA  agreed  to  allow 
a  UN  peacekeeping  force  to  assume  the  role  of  protecting  the  Serbs 
in  Croatia  prior  to  final  settlement  and  to  remove  all  occupation 
forces  from  Croatian  territory.  The  UN  force  headquarters  was 
to  be  in  Banja  Luka,  Bosnia,  midway  between  the  battle  areas  of 
Slavonia  and  the  Adriatic  coast.  In  January  1992,  the  main  obsta- 
cle to  introducing  the  UN  force  was  continued  military  activity  by 
irregular  Serbian  forces  not  controlled  by  the  YPA  or  by  any 
government. 

Serbia's  resources  were  increasingly  taxed  by  the  war  with  Croa- 
tia, by  the  decrepit  state  of  its  economy,  and  by  growing  isolation 
in  Europe.  Increased  separatist  activity  in  Kosovo  threatened  to 


xl 


open  a  second  front  for  the  YPA,  and  opposition  groups  also  grew 
stronger  in  Vojvodina.  For  these  reasons,  Serbia  revised  its  goals 
late  in  1991  to  include  domination  of  a  reduced  Yugoslav  federa- 
tion. Serbian  planners  envisioned  that  the  state  would  include  most 
of  the  Serbian  nationals  in  Croatia  and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina, 
loyal  ally  Montenegro,  and  Macedonia.  As  1991  ended,  the  Milo- 
sevic government  faced  increased  pressure  from  democratic  oppo- 
sition factions  to  end  the  war,  reform  the  economy,  and  follow  the 
other  republics  seeking  the  benefits  of  integration  into  the  Euro- 
pean community.  At  that  time,  50  percent  of  Serbs  polled  described 
war  against  Croatia  as  a  mistake.  Although  the  Milosevic  govern- 
ment continued  its  anti-Croatian  rhetoric,  its  conditions  for  a  UN 
peacekeeping  force  had  eased  considerably  by  January  1992. 

Meanwhile,  to  avoid  being  absorbed  in  the  new  Serbian  federa- 
tion, Macedonia  and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  reaffirmed  their  1991 
declarations  of  sovereignty  by  requesting  recognition  by  the  EC , 
which  promised  to  use  human  rights  and  commitment  to  democracy 
as  the  standards  for  recognition.  European  support  was  especially 
important  for  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina,  where  an  uneasy  peace 
among  the  Serbs,  Croats,  and  Muslim  Slavs  was  threatened  by 
proposals  to  unite  all  Serbs  in  a  single  nation.  Although  some  fac- 
tions in  Montenegro  also  showed  discomfort  at  the  prospect  of  Ser- 
bian domination,  Montenegro  did  not  leave  the  Serbian  sphere  by 
immediately  seeking  EC  recognition.  For  all  the  actors,  including 
Serbia,  an  important  goal  for  1992  was  to  cultivate  a  positive  im- 
age and  communication  with  the  outside  world.  For  the  less  power- 
ful, this  course  could  confer  the  recognition  that  might  protect  them 
from  being  swallowed  into  a  new  Greater  Serbia.  In  designing  their 
new  policies,  all  five  non-Serbian  republics  entered  1992  under  com- 
petent popularly  elected  leaders:  Tudjman  in  Croatia,  Izetbego- 
vic  in  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina,  Kiro  Gligorov  in  Macedonia,  Bula- 
tovic  in  Montenegro,  and  Kucan  in  Slovenia. 

The  Croatian  conflict  was  the  bloodiest  war  in  Europe  since 
World  War  II.  Because  the  United  States  was  far  removed  and 
the  Soviet  Union  had  ceased  to  exist,  the  military  and  political  reso- 
lution of  the  conflict  became  an  entirely  European  problem.  The 
conflict  accelerated  a  natural  movement  of  the  republics  toward 
the  economic  stability  of  the  EC  and  officially  ended  the  era  of 
Titoist  nonalignment.  Yugoslavia,  a  paragon  of  economic  self- 
sufficiency  twenty  years  before,  had  finally  dissolved  into  units  with 
sharply  varying  potential  prosperity.  Although  these  units  had  as 
little  in  common  in  1992  as  they  had  had  in  1972,  all  of  them, 


xli 


including  Serbia,  looked  to  Western  Europe  to  help  them  salvage 
some  of  their  postwar  gains  in  the  new  and  uncertain  era  that  lay 
ahead  in  1992. 


January  1,  1992  Glenn  E.  Curtis 


xlii 


Patriarchal  Monastery  near  Pec,  Kosovo;  from  thirteenth  to 
eighteenth  century,  served  as  seat  of  administration  for 
Serbian  Orthodox  Church 


Yugoslavia  is  the  complex  product  of  a  complex 

history.  The  country's  confusing  and  conflicting  mosaic  of  peo- 
ples, languages,  religions,  and  cultures  took  shape  during  centu- 
ries of  turmoil  after  the  collapse  of  the  Roman  Empire.  By  the  early 
nineteenth  century,  two  great  empires,  the  Austrian  and  the  Ot- 
toman, ruled  all  the  modern-day  Yugoslav  lands  except  Mon- 
tenegro. As  the  century  progressed,  however,  nationalist  feelings 
awoke  in  the  region's  diverse  peoples,  the  Turkish  grip  began  to 
weaken,  and  Serbia  won  its  independence. 

Discontent  with  the  existing  order  brought  calls  for  a  union  of 
South  Slav  peoples:  Slovenian  and  Croatian  thinkers  proposed  a 
South  Slav  kingdom  within  the  Austrian  Empire,  while  Serbian 
intellectuals  envisaged  a  fully  independent  South  Slav  state.  By  the 
end  of  the  century,  the  Ottoman  Empire  was  disintegrating,  and 
Austria-Hungary,  Serbia,  and  other  powers  vied  to  gain  a  share 
of  the  empire's  remaining  Balkan  lands.  The  conflict  of  those  am- 
bitions unleashed  the  forces  that  destroyed  the  old  European  order 
in  World  War  I. 

The  idea  of  a  South  Slav  kingdom  flourished  during  World  War 
I,  but  the  collapse  of  Austria- Hungary  eliminated  the  possibility 
of  a  South  Slav  kingdom  under  Austrian  sponsorship.  Fear  of  Italian 
domination  drove  some  leaders  of  the  Slovenes  and  Croats  to  unite 
with  Serbia  in  a  single  kingdom  under  the  Serbian  dynasty  in  1918. 
Political  infighting  and  nationalist  strife  plagued  this  kingdom  dur- 
ing the  interwar  years.  When  democratic  institutions  proved  in- 
effectual, Serbian  dictatorship  took  over,  and  the  kingdom  collapsed 
in  violence  after  the  Axis  powers  invaded  in  1941. 

During  World  War  II,  communist-led  Partisans  (see  Glossary) 
waged  a  victorious  guerrilla  struggle  against  foreign  occupiers, 
Croatian  fascists,  and  supporters  of  the  prewar  government.  This 
struggle  led  to  the  rebirth  of  Yugoslavia  as  a  socialist  federation 
under  communist  rule  on  November  29,  1945.  Under  Josip  Broz 
Tito,  Yugoslav  communists  were  faithful  to  orthodox  Stalinism  until 
a  1948  split  with  Moscow.  At  that  time,  a  Soviet-led  economic  block- 
ade compelled  the  Yugoslavs  to  devise  an  economic  system  based 
on  socialist  self-management.  To  this  system,  the  Yugoslavs  added 
a  nonaligned  foreign  policy  and  an  idiosyncratic,  one-party  poli- 
tical system.  This  system  maintained  a  semblance  of  unity  during 
most  of  Tito's  four  decades  of  unquestioned  rule.  Soon  after  his 
death  in  1980,  however,  long-standing  differences  again  separated 


3 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

the  communist  parties  of  the  country's  republics  and  provinces. 
Economic  turmoil  and  the  reemergence  of  an  old  conflict  between 
the  Serbs  and  the  ethnic  Albanian  majority  in  Kosovo  exacerbat- 
ed these  differences,  fueled  a  resurgence  of  nationalism,  and  para- 
lyzed the  country's  political  decision-making  mechanism. 

Pre-Slav  History 

Ancient  peoples  inhabited  the  lands  that  now  make  up  Yugo- 
slavia for  millennia  before  Rome  conquered  the  region  in  the  first 
century  A.D.  Archeological  findings  reveal  that  during  the 
Paleolithic  period  (ca.  200,000-8000  B.C.)  man's  ancestors  hunt- 
ed and  foraged  in  the  mountains,  valleys,  and  interior  plains  of 
today's  Yugoslavia.  In  the  Mesolithic  period  (8000-6000  B.C.), 
man  expanded  the  use  of  tools  and  weapons  and  settled  through- 
out the  country.  Farming  came  to  the  area  at  the  dawn  of  the  Neo- 
lithic period  (6000-2800  B.C.)  and  spread  throughout  the  region 
by  4000  B.C.  Yugoslavia's  Neolithic  inhabitants  planted  cereal 
grains,  raised  livestock,  fished,  hunted,  wove  simple  textiles,  built 
houses  of  wood  or  mud,  and  made  coarse  pottery  and  implements. 

Man  began  working  with  pure  copper  in  the  region  in  the  third 
millennium  B.C.  During  the  Bronze  Age  (2800-700  B.C.),  the 
population  grew,  settlements  multiplied,  and  craftsmen  began  cast- 
ing ornaments,  tools,  and  weapons.  After  about  1450  B.C.,  smiths 
began  working  with  locally  mined  gold  and  silver,  horses  and  chari- 
ots became  more  common,  and  trade  routes  stretched  to  northern 
Europe  and  the  Aegean.  During  the  Iron  Age  (beginning  700  B.C.), 
trade  flourished  between  the  developing  city-states  of  Italy  and 
Greece  and  the  region's  first  identifiable  peoples:  Illy rian- speaking 
tribes  north  of  Lake  Ohrid  and  west  of  the  Vardar  River  (in  present- 
day  Macedonia),  Thracian  speakers  in  the  area  of  modern  Serbia, 
and  the  Veneti,  who  probably  spoke  an  Italic  tongue,  in  Istria  and 
the  Julian  Alps  (in  present-day  Slovenia  and  northwest  Croatia). 

Greeks  set  up  trading  posts  along  the  eastern  Adriatic  coast  af- 
ter 600  B.C.  and  founded  colonies  there  in  the  fourth  century  B.C. 
Greek  influence  proved  ephemeral,  however,  and  the  native  tribes 
remained  herdsmen  and  warriors.  Bardylis,  a  tribal  chief  of  Illyr- 
ia  (present-day  northwest  Yugoslavia),  assumed  control  of  much 
of  Macedonia  in  360  B.C.  Philip  II  and  his  son,  Alexander  the 
Great,  later  united  Macedonia  and  campaigned  as  far  north  as 
present-day  Serbia.  In  the  fourth  century  B.C.,  invading  Celts 
forced  the  Illyrians  southward  from  the  northern  Adriatic  coast, 
and  over  several  centuries  a  mixed  Celtic-Illyrian  culture  arose  in 
much  of  modern  Slovenia,  Croatia,  and  Serbia,  producing  wheel- 
turned  pottery,  jewelry,  and  iron  tools. 


4 


Historical  Setting 


In  the  third  century  B.C.,  Rome  conquered  the  west  Adriatic 
coast  and  began  exerting  influence  on  the  opposite  shore.  Greek 
allegations  that  the  Illyrians  were  disrupting  commerce  and  plun- 
dering coastal  towns  helped  precipitate  a  Roman  punitive  strike 
in  229  B.C.,  and  in  subsequent  campaigns  Rome  forced  Illyrian 
rulers  to  pay  tribute.  Roman  armies  often  crossed  Illyria  during 
the  Roman-Macedonian  wars,  and  in  168  B.C.  Rome  conquered 
the  Illyrians  and  destroyed  the  Macedonia  of  Philip  and  Alexander. 
For  many  years,  the  Dinaric  Alps  sheltered  resistance  forces,  but 
Roman  dominance  increased.  In  35  B.C.,  the  emperor  Octavian 
conquered  the  coastal  region  and  seized  inland  Celtic  and  Illyrian 
strongholds;  in  A.D.  9,  Tiberius  consolidated  Roman  control  of 
the  western  Balkan  Peninsula;  and  by  A.D.  14,  Rome  had  sub- 
jugated the  Celts  in  what  is  now  Serbia.  The  Romans  brought  order 
to  the  region,  and  their  inventive  genius  produced  lasting  monu- 
ments. But  Rome's  most  significant  legacy  to  the  region  was  the 
separation  of  the  empire's  Byzantine  and  Roman  spheres  (the 
Eastern  and  Western  Roman  Empires,  respectively),  which  creat- 
ed a  cultural  chasm  that  would  divide  East  from  West,  Eastern  Or- 
thodox from  Roman  Catholic,  and  Serb  from  Croat  and  Slovene. 

Over  the  next  500  years,  Latin  culture  permeated  the  region. 
The  Romans  divided  their  western  Balkan  territories  into  separate 
provinces.  New  roads  linked  fortresses,  mines,  and  trading  towns. 
The  Romans  introduced  viticulture  in  Dalmatia,  instituted  slav- 
ery, and  dug  new  mines.  Agriculture  thrived  in  the  Danube  Ba- 
sin, and  towns  throughout  the  country  blossomed  into  urban  areas 
with  forums,  temples,  water  systems,  coliseums,  and  public  baths. 
In  addition  to  gods  of  the  Greco-Roman  pantheon,  Roman  legion- 
naires brought  the  mystic  cult  of  Mithras  from  Persia.  The  Ro- 
man army  also  recruited  natives  of  the  conquered  regions,  and  five 
sons  of  Illyrian  peasants  rose  through  the  ranks  to  become  emperor. 
The  Illyrian,  Celtic,  and  Thracian  languages  all  eventually  died 
out,  but  the  centuries  of  Roman  domination  failed  to  create  cul- 
tural uniformity. 

Internal  strife  and  an  economic  crisis  rocked  the  empire  in  the 
third  century  A.D. ,  and  two  ethnic  Illyrian  emperors,  born  in  areas 
now  in  Yugoslavia,  took  decisive  steps  to  prolong  the  empire's  life. 
Emperor  Diocletian,  born  in  Dalmatia,  established  strong  central 
control  and  a  bureaucracy,  abolished  the  last  Roman  republican 
institutions,  and  persecuted  Christians  in  an  attempt  to  make  them 
identify  more  with  the  state  than  the  church.  Emperor  Constan- 
tine,  born  near  Nis,  reunited  the  empire  after  years  of  turmoil, 
established  dynastic  succession,  founded  a  new  capital  at  Byzanti- 
um in  A.D.  330,  and  legalized  Christianity. 


5 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

In  A.D.  395,  the  sons  of  Emperor  Theodosius  split  the  empire 
into  eastern  and  western  halves.  The  division,  which  became  a  per- 
manent feature  of  the  European  cultural  landscape,  separated  Greek 
Constantinople  (as  Byzantium  was  renamed  in  A.D.  330)  from 
Latin  Rome  and  eventually  the  Eastern  Orthodox  and  Roman 
Catholic  churches.  It  likewise  separated  the  lands  in  what  is  now 
Yugoslavia,  exercising  a  critical  influence  on  the  Serbs  and  Croats. 
Economic  and  administrative  breakdown  soon  softened  the  em- 
pire's defenses,  especially  in  the  western  half,  and  barbarian  tribes 
began  to  attack.  In  the  fourth  century,  the  Goths  sacked  Roman 
fortresses  along  the  Danube  River,  and  in  A.D.  448  the  Huns 
ravaged  Sirmium  (now  Sremska  Mitrovica  northwest  of  present- 
day  Belgrade),  Singidunum  (now  Belgrade),  and  Emona  (now 
Ljubljana).  The  Ostrogoths  had  conquered  Dalmatia  and  other 
provinces  by  493.  Emperor  Justinian  drove  the  invaders  out  in  the 
sixth  century,  but  the  defenses  of  the  empire  proved  inadequate 
to  maintain  this  gain. 

Slavic  tribesmen  poured  across  the  empire's  borders  during  the 
fifth  and  sixth  centuries.  The  Slavs,  characteristically  sedentary 
farming  and  livestock-raising  tribes,  spoke  an  Indo-European  lan- 
guage and  organized  themselves  into  clans  ruled  by  a  council  of 
family  chiefs.  All  land  and  significant  wealth  was  held  in  common. 
In  the  sixth  century,  the  Slavs  allied  with  the  more  powerful  Avars 
to  plunder  the  Danube  Basin.  Together,  they  erased  almost  all  trace 
of  Christian  life  in  Dalmatia  and  the  northwestern  parts  of  present- 
day  Yugoslavia.  In  A.D.  626,  these  tribes  surrounded  Constan- 
tinople itself.  The  Avar  incursions  proved  key  to  the  subsequent 
development  of  Yugoslavia  because  they  immediately  preceded, 
and  may  have  precipitated,  the  arrival  of  the  Serbs  and  Croats. 

Histories  of  the  Yugoslav  Peoples  to  World  War  I 

Before  Yugoslavia  became  a  nation,  the  Slovenes,  Croats,  Serbs, 
Montenegrins,  Bosnians,  Macedonians,  and  Albanians  had  vir- 
tually independent  histories.  The  Slovenes  struggled  to  define  and 
defend  their  cultural  identity  for  a  millennium,  first  under  the 
Frankish  Kingdom  and  then  under  the  Austrian  Empire.  The 
Croats  of  Croatia  and  Slavonia  enjoyed  a  brief  independence  be- 
fore falling  under  Hungarian  and  Austrian  domination;  and  the 
Croats  in  Dalmatia  struggled  under  Byzantine,  Hungarian,  Vene- 
tian, French,  and  Austrian  rule.  The  Serbs,  who  briefly  rivaled 
the  Byzantine  Empire  in  medieval  times,  suffered  500  years  of  Tur- 
kish domination  before  winning  independence  in  the  nineteenth 
century.  Their  Montenegrin  kinsmen  lived  for  centuries  under  a 
dynasty  of  bishop-priests  and  savagely  defended  their  mountain 


6 


Palace  of  Roman  Emperor  Diocletian,  Split 
Courtesy  Sam  and  Sarah  Stulberg 

homeland  against  foreign  aggressors.  Bosnians  turned  to  heresy 
to  protect  themselves  from  external  political  and  religious  pressure, 
converted  in  great  numbers  to  Islam  after  the  Turks  invaded,  and 
became  a  nuisance  to  Austria-Hungary  in  the  late  nineteenth  cen- 
tury. A  hodgepodge  of  ethnic  groups  peopled  Macedonia  over  the 
centuries.  As  the  power  of  the  Ottoman  Empire  waned,  the  region 
was  contested  among  the  Serbs,  Bulgars,  Greeks,  and  Albanians 
and  also  was  a  pawn  among  the  major  European  powers.  Finally, 
the  disputed  Kosovo  region,  with  an  Albanian  majority  and 
medieval  Serbian  tradition,  remained  an  Ottoman  backwater  un- 
til after  the  Balkan  wars  of  the  early  twentieth  century. 

The  Slovenes 

The  Slovenes,  a  Slavic  people,  migrated  southwestward  across 
present-day  Romania  in  about  the  sixth  century  A.D.  and  settled 
in  the  Julian  Alps.  They  apparently  enjoyed  broad  autonomy  in 
the  seventh  century,  after  escaping  Avar  domination.  The  Franks 
overran  the  Slovenes  in  the  late  eighth  century;  during  the  rule 
of  the  Frankish  king  Charlemagne,  German  nobles  began  enserf- 
ing  the  Slovenes,  and  German  missionaries  baptized  them  in  the 
Latin  rite.  Emperor  Otto  I  incorporated  most  of  the  Slovenian  lands 
into  the  duchy  of  Carantania  in  952;  later  rulers  split  the  duchy 


7 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


into  Carinthia,  Carniola,  and  Styria.  In  1278  the  Slovenian  lands 
fell  to  the  Austrian  Habsburgs,  who  controlled  them  until  1918. 

Turkish  marauders  plagued  Carinthia,  Carniola,  and  Styria  in 
the  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  centuries.  The  Slovenes  abandoned 
lands  vulnerable  to  attack  and  raised  bulwarks  around  churches 
to  protect  themselves.  The  Turkish  conquest  of  the  Balkans  and 
Hungary  also  disrupted  the  Slovenian  economy;  to  compensate, 
the  nobles  stiffened  feudal  obligations  and  crushed  peasant  revolts 
between  1478  and  1573. 

In  the  tumult  of  the  sixteenth  century,  German  nobles  in  the 
three  Slovenian  provinces  clamored  for  greater  autonomy,  em- 
braced the  Protestant  Reformation,  and  drew  many  Slovenes  away 
from  the  Catholic  Church.  The  Reformation  sparked  the  Slovenes' 
first  cultural  awakening.  In  1550  Primoz  Trubar  published  the  first 
Slovenian-language  book,  a  catechism.  He  later  produced  a  trans- 
lation of  the  New  Testament  and  printed  other  Slovenian  religious 
books  in  the  Latin  and  Cyrillic  (see  Glossary)  scripts.  Ljubljana 
had  a  printing  press  by  1575,  but  the  authorities  closed  it  when 
Jurij  Dalmatin  tried  to  publish  a  translation  of  the  Bible.  Sloveni- 
an publishing  activity  then  shifted  to  Germany,  where  Dalmatin 
published  his  Bible  with  a  glossary  enabling  Croats  to  read  it.  The 
Counterreformation  accelerated  in  Austria  in  the  early  seventeenth 
century,  and  in  1628  the  emperor  forced  Protestants  to  choose  be- 
tween Catholicism  and  exile.  Jesuit  counterreformers  burned  Slove- 
nian Protestant  literature  and  took  other  measures  that  retarded 
diversification  of  Slovenian  culture  but  failed  to  stifle  it  completely. 
Some  Jesuits  preached  and  composed  hymns  in  Slovenian,  opened 
schools,  taught  from  an  expurgated  edition  of  Dalmatin's  Bible, 
and  sent  Slovenian  students  to  Austrian  universities.  Nonetheless, 
Slovenian  remained  a  peasant  idiom,  and  the  higher  social  classes 
spoke  German  or  Italian. 

Slovenian  economic  links  with  Germany  and  Italy  strengthened 
in  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  centuries,  and  living  conditions 
improved.  The  Vienna-Trieste  trade  route  crossed  through  the 
Slovenian  cities  of  Maribor  and  Ljubljana.  Agricultural  products 
and  raw  materials  were  exported  over  this  trade  route,  and  exotic 
goods  were  imported  from  the  East.  Despite  his  campaign  to  Ger- 
manize the  Austrian  Empire,  Emperor  Joseph  II  (1780-90)  encour- 
aged translation  of  educational  materials  into  Slovenian.  He  also 
distributed  monastic  lands,  workshops,  and  fisheries  to  Slovenian 
entrepreneurs. 

By  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century,  Slovenian  prosperity  had 
yielded  a  self-reliant  middle  class  that  sent  its  sons  to  study  in  Vienna 
and  Paris.  They  returned  steeped  in  the  views  of  the  Enlightenment 


8 


Historical  Setting 


and  bent  on  rational  examination  of  their  own  culture.  Slovenian 
intellectuals  began  writing  in  Slovenian  rather  than  German,  and 
they  introduced  the  idea  of  a  Slovenian  nation.  Between  1788  and 
1791,  Anton  Linhart  wrote  an  antifeudal,  anticlerical  history  of 
the  Slovenes  that  depicted  them  for  the  first  time  as  a  single  peo- 
ple. In  1797  Father  Valentin  Vodnik  composed  Slovenian  poetry 
and  founded  the  first  Slovenian  newspaper. 

After  several  victories  over  Austria,  Napoleon  incorporated  the 
Slovenian  provinces  and  other  Austrian  lands  into  the  French  Em- 
pire as  the  Illyrian  Provinces,  with  the  capital  at  Ljubljana.  Despite 
unpopular  new  tax  and  conscription  laws,  Slovenian  intellectuals 
welcomed  the  French,  who  issued  proclamations  in  Slovenian  as 
well  as  in  German  and  French,  built  roads,  reformed  the  govern- 
ment, appointed  Slovenes  to  official  posts,  and  opened  Slovenian- 
language  schools  for  both  sexes.  France  strengthened  the  national 
self-awareness  of  the  Slovenes  and  other  South  Slavs  in  the  Illyri- 
an Provinces  by  promoting  the  concept  of  Illyria  as  a  common  link 
among  Slovenes,  Croats,  and  Serbs.  This  concept  later  evolved  into 
the  idea  of  uniting  the  South  Slavs  in  an  independent  state. 

Austria  reasserted  its  dominance  of  the  Slovenes  in  1813  and 
rescinded  the  French  reforms.  Slovenian  intellectuals,  however,  con- 
tinued refining  the  Slovenian  language  and  national  identity,  while 
Austria  strove  to  confine  their  activities  to  the  cultural  sphere.  The 
pro-Austrian  philologist  and  linguist  Jernej  Kopitar  pioneered  com- 
parative Slavic  linguistics  and  created  a  Slovenian  literary  language 
from  numerous  local  dialects,  hoping  to  strengthen  the  monarchy 
and  Catholicism.  France  Preseren,  perhaps  the  greatest  Sloveni- 
an poet,  worked  to  transform  the  Slovenian  peasant  idiom  into  a 
refined  language.  In  the  1840s,  Slovenian  audiences  heard  the  first 
official  public  speech  delivered  in  Slovenian  and  the  first  Sloveni- 
an songs  sung  in  a  theater.  In  1843  Janez  Blajvajs  founded  a  prac- 
tical journal  for  peasants  and  craftsmen  that  carried  the  cultural 
movement  beyond  the  upper  class  to  the  masses. 

Revolution  convulsed  Europe  in  1848,  and  demonstrators  in  cities 
throughout  the  Austrian  Empire  called  for  constitutional  monarchy. 
Crowds  in  Ljubljana  cheered  the  apparent  downfall  of  the  old  order. 
Intellectual  groups  drafted  the  Slovenes'  first  political  platforms. 
Some  programs  called  for  an  autonomous  "Unified  Slovenia"  within 
the  empire;  others  supported  unification  of  the  South  Slavs  into  an 
Illyrian  state  linked  with  Austria  or  Germany.  The  1848  revolutions 
swept  away  serfdom  in  the  Austrian  Empire,  but  the  political  move- 
ment of  the  Slovenes  made  little  headway  before  the  Austrian  govern- 
ment regained  control  and  imposed  absolutist  rule.  In  the  1850s 


9 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


and  early  1860s,  the  campaigns  of  Slovenian  leaders  were  again 
restricted  to  the  cultural  sphere. 

Military  defeats  in  1859  and  1866  exposed  the  internal  weak- 
ness of  the  Austrian  Empire,  and  in  1867  Austria  attempted  to 
revitalize  itself  by  joining  with  Hungary  to  form  the  Dual  Monar- 
chy (see  Glossary).  In  the  late  1860s,  Slovenian  leaders,  convinced 
of  the  empire's  imminent  collapse,  resurrected  the  dream  of  a  united 
Slovenia.  They  staged  mass  rallies,  agitated  for  use  of  the  Sloven- 
ian language  in  schools  and  local  government,  and  sought  support 
from  the  Croats  and  other  South  Slavs.  When  the  threat  to  the 
survival  of  Austria-Hungary  waned  after  1871 ,  the  Slovenes  with- 
drew their  support  for  a  South  Slav  union  and  adapted  themselves 
to  political  life  within  the  Dual  Monarchy.  The  conservative  coa- 
lition that  ruled  Austria  from  1879  to  1893  made  minor  cultural 
concessions  to  the  Slovenes,  including  use  of  Slovenian  in  schools 
and  local  administration  in  some  areas.  Slovenes  controlled  the  local 
assembly  of  Carniola  after  1883,  and  Ljubljana  had  a  Slovenian 
mayor  after  1888. 

In  1907  Austria  instituted  universal  male  suffrage,  which  en- 
couraged Slovenian  politicians  that  the  empire  would  eventually 
fulfill  the  Slovenes'  national  aspirations.  In  October  1908,  Aus- 
tria annexed  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina.  The  annexation  sharpened 
the  national  self- awareness  of  the  South  Slavs  and  generated  rumors 
of  impending  war  with  Serbia.  Troop  mobilization  began.  How- 
ever, the  main  Slovenian  parties  welcomed  the  annexation  as  a  step 
toward  a  union  of  the  empire's  South  Slavs.  Tensions  eased  after 
six  months,  but  Austria-Hungary,  fearing  pan-Slavism  (see  Glos- 
sary), conducted  witch  hunts  for  disloyal  Slavs.  In  1909  Slovenian 
party  leaders  criticized  Vienna  for  mistreating  the  Slavs,  but  the 
possibilities  of  a  South  Slav  union  within  the  empire  declined.  De- 
mands rose  for  creation  of  an  independent  South  Slav  nation,  and 
a  socialist  conference  in  Ljubljana  even  called  for  the  cultural  unifi- 
cation of  all  South  Slavs.  Such  appeals  began  a  heated  debate  on 
the  implications  of  unification  for  Slovenian  culture. 

The  Croats  and  Their  Territories 

Most  historians  believe  that  the  Croats  are  a  purely  Slavic  peo- 
ple who  probably  migrated  to  the  Balkans  from  present-day 
Ukraine.  A  newer  theory,  however,  holds  that  the  original  Croats 
were  nomadic  Sarmatians  who  roamed  Central  Asia,  migrated  onto 
the  steppes  around  200  B.C.,  and  rode  into  Europe  near  the  end 
of  the  fourth  century  A.D.,  possibly  together  with  the  Huns.  The 
Sarmatian  Croats,  the  theory  holds,  conquered  the  Slavs  of  north- 
ern Bohemia  and  southern  Poland  and  formed  a  small  state  called 


10 


Historical  Setting 


White  Croatia  near  present-day  Krakow.  The  Croats  then  sup- 
posedly mingled  with  their  more  numerous  Slavic  subjects  and 
adopted  the  Slavic  language,  while  the  subjects  assumed  the  tribal 
name  "Croat." 

A  tenth-century  Byzantine  source  reports  that  in  the  seventh  cen- 
tury Emperor  Heraclius  enlisted  the  Croats  to  expel  the  Avars  from 
Byzantine  lands.  The  Croats  overran  the  Avars  and  Slavs  in  Dalma- 
tia  around  630  and  then  drove  the  Avars  from  today's  Slovenia 
and  other  areas.  In  the  eighth  century,  the  Croats  lived  under  loose 
Byzantine  rule,  and  Christianity  and  Latin  culture  recovered  in 
the  coastal  cities.  The  Franks  subjugated  most  of  the  Croats  in  the 
eighth  century  and  sent  missionaries  to  baptize  them  in  the  Latin 
rite,  but  the  Byzantine  Empire  continued  to  rule  Dalmatia. 

Croatia  emerged  as  an  independent  nation  in  924.  Tomislav 
(910-ca.  928),  a  tribal  leader,  established  himself  as  the  first  king 
of  Croatia,  ruling  a  domain  that  stretched  eastward  to  the  Danube. 
Croatia  and  Venice  struggled  to  dominate  Dalmatia  as  the  power 
of  Byzantium  faded,  and  for  a  time  the  Dalmatians  paid  the  Croats 
tribute  to  ensure  safe  passage  for  their  galleys  through  the  Adriatic. 
After  the  Great  Schism  of  1054  split  the  Roman  and  Byzantine 
churches,  Normans  (probably  with  papal  support)  besieged  Byzan- 
tine cities  in  Dalmatia.  In  1075  a  papal  legate  crowned  Dmitrije 
Zvonimir  (1076-89)  king  of  Croatia. 

A  faction  of  nobles  contesting  the  succession  after  the  death  of 
Zvonimir  offered  the  Croatian  throne  to  King  Laszlo  I  of  Hun- 
gary. In  1091  Laszlo  accepted,  and  in  1094  he  founded  the  Zagreb 
bishopric,  which  later  became  the  ecclesiastical  center  of  Croatia. 
Another  Hungarian  king,  Kalman,  crushed  opposition  after  the 
death  of  Laszlo  and  won  the  crown  of  Dalmatia  and  Croatia  in 
1102.  The  crowning  of  Kalman  forged  a  link  between  the  Croa- 
tian and  Hungarian  crowns  that  lasted  until  the  end  of  World  War 
I.  Croats  have  maintained  for  centuries  that  Croatia  remained  a 
sovereign  state  despite  the  voluntary  union  of  the  two  crowns,  but 
Hungarians  claim  that  Hungary  annexed  Croatia  outright  in  1 102. 
In  either  case,  Hungarian  culture  permeated  Croatia,  the  Croatian- 
Hungarian  border  shifted  often,  and  at  times  Hungary  treated 
Croatia  as  a  vassal  state.  Croatia,  however,  had  its  own  local  gover- 
nor, or  ban;  a  privileged  landowning  nobility;  and  an  assembly  of 
nobles,  the  Sabor. 

The  joining  of  the  Croatian  and  Hungarian  crowns  automati- 
cally made  Hungary  and  Venice  rivals  for  domination  of  Dalma- 
tia. Hungary  sought  access  to  the  sea,  while  Venice  wished  to  secure 
its  trade  routes  to  the  eastern  Mediterranean  and  to  use  Dalmatian 
timber  for  shipbuilding.  Between  1115  and  1420,  the  two  powers 


11 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

waged  twenty-one  wars  for  control  of  the  region,  and  Dalmatian 
cities  changed  hands  repeatedly.  Serbia  and  Bosnia  also  competed 
for  Dalmatia.  Serbia  seized  the  coast  south  of  the  Gulf  of  Kotor 
on  the  southern  Adriatic  around  1196  and  held  it  for  150  years; 
Bosnia  dominated  central  Dalmatia  during  the  late  fourteenth  cen- 
tury. Dalmatian  cities  struggled  to  remain  autonomous  by  play- 
ing off  one  power  against  the  others.  Most  successful  in  this  strategy 
was  Dubrovnik,  whose  riches  and  influence  at  times  rivaled  those 
of  Venice.  In  the  fourteenth  century,  Dubrovnik  became  the  first 
Christian  power  to  establish  treaty  relations  with  the  Ottoman  Em- 
pire, which  was  then  advancing  across  the  Balkans.  Dubrovnik 
prospered  by  mediating  between  Europe  and  the  new  Ottoman 
provinces  in  Europe  and  by  exporting  precious  metals,  raw  materi- 
als, agricultural  goods,  and  slaves.  After  centuries  as  the  only  free 
South  Slav  political  entity,  the  city  waned  in  power  following  a  se- 
vere earthquake  in  1667. 

In  1409  Ladislas  of  Naples,  a  claimant  to  the  throne  of  Hun- 
gary, sold  Venice  his  rights  to  Dalmatia.  By  1420  Venice  controlled 
virtually  all  of  Dalmatia  except  Dubrovnik.  The  Venetians  made 
Dalmatia  their  poorest,  most  backward  province:  they  reduced 
Dalmatian  local  autonomy,  cut  the  forests,  and  stifled  industry. 
Venice  also  restricted  education,  so  that  Zadar,  the  administrative 
center  of  Dalmatia,  lacked  even  a  printing  press  until  1796.  Despite 
centuries  of  struggle  for  dominance  of  the  region  and  exploitation 
by  Venice,  Dalmatia  produced  several  first-rate  artists  and  intellec- 
tuals, including  the  sculptor  Radovan,  architect  and  sculptor  Juraj 
Dalmatinac,  writer  Ivan  Gundulic,  and  scientist  Rudjer  Boskovic. 

Ottoman  armies  overran  all  of  Croatia  south  of  the  Sava  River 
in  the  early  sixteenth  century  and  slaughtered  a  weak  Hungarian 
force  at  the  Battle  of  Mohacs  in  1526.  Buda  was  captured  in  1541, 
and  then  Turkish  marauders  advanced  toward  Austria.  After  Mo- 
hacs, Hungarian  and  Croatian  nobles  elected  the  Habsburg  Fer- 
dinand I  of  Austria  king  of  Hungary  and  Croatia.  To  tighten  its 
grip  on  Croatia  and  solidify  its  defenses,  Austria  restricted  the  pow- 
ers of  the  Sabor,  established  a  military  border  across  Croatia,  and 
recruited  Germans,  Hungarians,  and  Serbs  and  other  Slavs  to  serve 
as  peasant  border  guards  (see  fig.  2).  This  practice  was  the  basis 
for  the  ethnic  patchwork  that  survives  today  in  Croatia,  Slavonia, 
and  Vojvodina.  Austria  assumed  direct  control  of  the  border  lands 
and  gave  local  independence  and  land  to  families  who  agreed  to 
settle  and  guard  those  lands.  The  area  that  they  settled  became 
known  as  the  Military  Frontier  Province.  Orthodox  border  fami- 
lies also  won  freedom  of  worship,  which  drew  stiff  opposition  from 
the  Roman  Catholic  Church. 


12 


Historical  Setting 


Turkish  inroads  in  Croatia  and  Austria  also  triggered  price  in- 
creases for  agricultural  goods,  and  opportunistic  landowners  be- 
gan demanding  payment  in  kind,  rather  than  cash,  from  serfs. 
Rural  discontent  exploded  in  1573  when  Matija  Gubec  led  an  or- 
ganized peasant  rebellion  that  spread  quickly  before  panic-stricken 
nobles  were  able  to  quell  it. 

Religious  ferment  in  Europe  affected  Croatian  culture  in  the  six- 
teenth century.  Many  Croatian  and  Dalmatian  nobles  embraced 
the  Protestant  Reformation  in  the  mid-sixteenth  century,  and  in 
1562  Stipan  Konzul  and  Anton  Dalmatin  published  the  first  Croa- 
tian Bible.  The  Counterreformation  began  in  Croatia  and  Dalmatia 
in  the  early  seventeenth  century,  and  the  most  powerful  Protes- 
tant noblemen  soon  reconverted.  In  1609  the  Sabor  voted  to  allow 
only  the  Catholic  faith  in  Croatia.  The  Counterreformation  en- 
hanced the  cultural  development  of  Croatia.  Jesuits  founded  schools 
and  published  grammars,  a  dictionary,  and  religious  books  that 
helped  shape  the  Croatian  literary  language.  Franciscans  preached 
the  Counterreformation  in  Ottoman-held  regions. 

Western  forces  routed  a  Turkish  army  besieging  Vienna  in  1683 
and  then  began  driving  the  Turks  from  Europe.  In  the  1699  Treaty 
of  Karlowitz,  the  Turks  ceded  most  of  Hungary,  Croatia,  and 
Slavonia  to  Austria,  and  by  1 718  they  no  longer  threatened  Dalma- 
tia. During  the  Western  advance,  Austria  expanded  its  military 
border,  and  thousands  of  Serbs  fleeing  Turkish  oppression  settled 
as  border  guards  in  Slavonia  and  southern  Hungary.  As  the  Turk- 
ish threat  waned,  Croatian  nobles  demanded  reincorporation  of 
the  military  border  into  Croatia.  Austria,  which  used  the  guards 
as  an  inexpensive  standing  military  force,  rejected  these  demands, 
and  the  guards  themselves  opposed  abrogation  of  their  special 
privileges. 

From  1780  to  1790,  Joseph  II  of  Austria  introduced  reforms  that 
exposed  ethnic  and  linguistic  rivalries.  Among  other  things,  Joseph 
brought  the  empire  under  strict  central  control  and  decreed  that 
German  replace  Latin  as  the  official  language  of  the  empire.  This 
decree  enraged  the  Hungarians,  who  rejected  Germanization  and 
fought  to  make  their  language,  Magyar,  the  official  language  of 
Hungary.  The  Croats,  fearing  both  Germanization  and  Magyari- 
zation,  defended  Latin.  In  1790,  when  Joseph  died,  Hungary  was 
on  the  verge  of  rebellion.  Joseph's  successor,  Leopold  II,  aban- 
doned centralization  and  Germanization  when  he  signed  laws  en- 
suring Hungary's  status  as  an  independent  kingdom  under  an 
Austrian  king.  The  next  Austrian  emperor,  Francis  I,  stifled  Hun- 
garian political  development  for  almost  four  decades,  during  which 
Magyarization  was  not  an  issue. 


13 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  United  Kingdom,  Admiralty,  Naval  Intelligence  Di- 
vision, Yugoslavia,  2:  History,  Peoples,  and  Administration,  London,  1944,  20. 


Figure  2.  Military  Frontier  Province  Between  the  Habsburg  and  Ottoman 
Empires,  ca.  1600-1800 

Venice  repulsed  Ottoman  attacks  on  Dalmatia  for  several  cen- 
turies after  the  Battle  of  Mohacs,  and  it  helped  to  push  the  Turks 
from  the  coastal  area  after  1693.  But  by  the  late  eighteenth  centu- 
ry, trade  routes  had  shifted,  Venice  had  declined,  and  Dalmatian 
ships  stood  idle.  Napoleon  ended  the  Venetian  Republic  and  defeat- 
ed Austria;  he  then  incorporated  Dalmatia,  Dubrovnik,  and  western 
Croatia  as  the  French  Illyrian  Provinces.  France  stimulated  agricul- 
ture and  commerce  in  the  provinces,  fought  piracy,  enhanced  the 
status  of  the  Orthodox  population,  and  stirred  a  Croatian  national 
awakening.  In  1814  the  military  border  and  Dalmatia  returned  to 
Austria  when  Napoleon  was  defeated;  Hungary  regained  Croatia 
and  Slavonia.  In  1816  Austria  transformed  most  of  the  Illyrian 
Provinces  into  the  Kingdom  of  Illyria,  an  administrative  unit  de- 
signed to  counterbalance  radical  Hungarian  nationalism  and  co-opt 
nascent  movements  for  union  of  the  South  Slavs.  Austria  kept  Dal- 
matia for  itself  and  reduced  the  privileges  of  the  Dalmatian  nobles. 

The  Croatian-Hungarian  language  conflict  reemerged  in  the 
1830s  as  Hungarian  reformers  grew  more  critical  of  Austrian 


14 


Historical  Setting 


domination.  French-educated  Croatian  leaders,  fearing  Hungari- 
an linguistic  and  political  domination,  began  promoting  the  Croa- 
tian language  and  formation  of  a  Slavic  kingdom  within  the 
Austrian  Empire.  In  1832,  for  the  first  time  in  centuries,  a  Croa- 
tian noble  addressed  the  Sabor  in  Croatian.  With  tacit  Austrian 
approval,  Ljudevit  Gaj,  a  journalist  and  linguist,  promoted  a  South 
Slavic  literary  language,  devised  a  Latin-based  script,  and  in  1836 
founded  an  anti- Hungarian  journal  that  called  for  Illyrian  cultur- 
al and  political  unity.  Hungary  feared  the  Illyrian  movement  and 
banned  even  public  utterance  of  the  word  "Illyria."  In  1843  the 
Hungarian  assembly  voted  to  make  Magyar  the  official  language 
of  Hungary  and  Slavonia  and  eventually  to  make  it  the  official  lan- 
guage in  Hungarian-Croatian  relations.  Croats  called  the  law  an 
infringement  on  their  autonomy,  saturated  Vienna  with  petitions 
for  separation  from  Hungary,  and  returned  to  Budapest  all  docu- 
ments sent  them  in  Hungarian. 

Hungary  rose  against  Austria  during  the  revolutions  that  swept 
Europe  in  1848.  The  Croats,  rightly  fearing  Hungarian  chauvinism 
and  expecting  union  of  Croatia,  Slavonia,  and  Dalmatia,  sided  with 
Austria.  Ban  Josip  Jelacic  led  an  army  that  attacked  the  Hungari- 
an revolutionary  forces.  His  units  soon  withdrew,  but  Russian 
troops  invaded  Hungary  to  crush  the  revolution.  Despite  their 
loyalty  to  Austria,  the  Croats  received  only  the  abolition  of  serf- 
dom. Rather  than  uniting  the  Slavic  regions  as  promised,  the  em- 
peror suspended  the  constitution  and  introduced  absolutist  rule  and 
Germanization. 

Austria  ended  absolutist  rule  in  1860,  and  a  military  defeat  in 
1866  brought  the  empire  to  the  brink  of  collapse.  In  1867  Emperor 
Franz  Joseph  entered  the  Dual  Monarchy  with  Hungary,  uniting 
the  two  states  under  a  single  crown.  Conflicting  interests  kept 
Austria-Hungary  from  uniting  the  South  Slavs:  Croatia  and  Slavo- 
nia fell  under  Hungarian  control,  while  Austria  retained  Dalma- 
tia. In  1868  a  Sabor  dominated  by  pro-Hungarian  deputies  adopted 
the  Nagodba,  or  compromised,  which  affirmed  that  Hungary  and 
Croatia  constituted  distinct  political  units  within  the  empire.  Croatia 
obtained  autonomy  in  internal  matters,  but  finance  and  other 
Croatian-Hungarian  or  Austro-Hungarian  concerns  required  ap- 
proval from  Budapest  and  Vienna.  Hungarian  leaders  considered 
that  the  Nagodba  provided  ample  home  rule  for  Croatia,  but  Croa- 
tia opposed  it  strongly.  A  subsequent  election  law  guaranteed  pro- 
Hungarian  landowners  and  officials  a  majority  in  the  Sabor  and 
increased  Croatian  hatred  for  Hungarian  domination.  Croatian 
members  of  the  Hungarian  assembly  then  resorted  to  obstructionism 
to  enhance  their  meager  influence. 


15 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


After  1868  the  Croatian  leadership  was  divided  between  advo- 
cates of  a  South  Slav  union  and  nationalists  favoring  a  Greater 
Croatia;  a  bitter  rivalry  developed  between  the  Croats  and  Serbs. 
Bishop  Josip  Strossmayer  dominated  the  Croatian  South  Slav  move- 
ment and  supported  liturgical  concessions  to  help  reduce  the  reli- 
gious differences  dividing  Croats  and  Serbs.  In  pursuit  of  a  South 
Slav  cultural  union,  he  founded  the  South  Slav  Academy  of  Arts 
and  Sciences  in  1867  and  the  University  of  Zagreb  in  1874.  Ante 
Starcevic  opposed  Strossmayer,  pressed  for  a  Greater  Croatia,  and 
founded  an  extreme  nationalist  party.  In  1881  Austria-Hungary 
reincorporated  the  military  border  into  Croatia,  increasing  the  num- 
ber of  ethnic  Serbs  in  Croatia  to  about  25  percent  of  its  2.6  million 
population.  The  change  raised  ethnic  tensions.  The  Croats'  ill  will 
toward  Hungary  and  ethnic  Serbs  deepened  under  Ban  Karoly 
Khuen-Hedervary  (1883-1903),  who  ignored  the  Nagodba  and  ex- 
ploited the  Croatian-Serbian  rivalry  to  promote  Magyarization. 
In  1903  Hungary  rejected  Croatian  demands  for  financial  indepen- 
dence, quelled  demonstrations,  and  suppressed  the  Croatian  press. 
After  1903  moderate  Croats  and  ethnic  Serbs  found  common 
ground,  and  by  1908  a  Croatian- Serbian  coalition  won  a  majority 
in  the  Sabor  and  condemned  Austria's  annexation  of  Bosnia  and 
Hercegovina.  A  new  ban,  hoping  to  split  the  coalition,  brought 
bogus  treason  charges  against  ethnic  Serbian  leaders  in  Croatia; 
the  subsequent  trials  scandalized  Europe  and  strengthened  the  tenu- 
ous Croatian- Serbian  coalition. 

The  Serbs  and  Serbia,  Vojvodina,  and  Montenegro 

Like  the  Croats,  the  Serbs  are  believed  to  be  a  purely  Slavic 
people  who  originated  in  Ukraine.  Some  scholars  now  argue  that 
the  original  Serbs  were  Central  Asian  Sarmatian  nomads  who  en- 
tered Europe  with  the  Huns  in  the  fourth  century  A.D.  The  the- 
ory proposes  that  the  Sarmatian  Serbs  settled  in  a  land  designated 
as  White  Serbia,  in  what  is  now  Saxony  and  western  Poland.  The 
Sarmatian  Serbs,  it  is  argued,  intermarried  with  the  indigenous 
Slavs  of  the  region,  adopted  their  language,  and  transferred  their 
name  to  the  Slavs.  Byzantine  sources  report  that  some  Serbs  migrat- 
ed southward  in  the  seventh  century  A.D.  and  eventually  settled  in 
the  lands  that  now  make  up  southern  Serbia,  Montenegro,  Kosovo, 
and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina.  Rival  chiefs,  or  zupani,  vied  to  con- 
trol the  Serbs  for  five  centuries  after  the  migration.  Zupan  Vlastimir 
formed  a  Serbian  principality  under  the  Byzantines  around  850, 
and  the  Serbs  soon  converted  to  Eastern-rite  Christianity.  The  Serbs 
had  two  political  centers  in  the  eleventh  century:  Zeta,  in  the 


16 


Historical  Setting 


mountains  of  present-day  Montenegro,  and  Raska,  located  in 
modern  southwestern  Serbia. 

The  zupan  of  Raska,  Stefan  I  Nemanja  (1159-96),  threw  off 
Byzantine  domination  and  laid  the  foundation  for  medieval  Ser- 
bia by  conquering  Zeta  and  part  of  southern  Dalmatia.  His  son 
and  successor,  Stefan  II  Nemanja  (1196-1228),  transformed  Ser- 
bia into  a  stable  state,  friendly  with  Rome  but  with  religious  loyalty 
to  Constantinople.  In  1218  Pope  Honorius  III  recognized  Serbi- 
an political  independence  and  crowned  Stefan  II.  The  writings  of 
Stefan  II  and  his  brother  (later  canonized  as  St.  Sava)  were  the 
first  works  of  Serbian  literature. 

Later  kings  in  the  Nemanja  line  overcame  internal  rivalries  and 
pressure  from  Bulgaria  and  Constantinople.  They  also  rejected 
papal  invitations  to  link  the  Serbian  Orthodox  Church  with  Rome, 
and  they  ruled  their  country  through  a  golden  age.  Serbia  expanded 
its  economy,  and  Dalmatian  merchants  marketed  Serbian  goods 
throughout  Europe  and  the  Levant.  The  Nemanja  Dynasty  left  to 
Serbia  masterpieces  of  religious  art  combining  Western,  Byzan- 
tine, and  local  styles. 

Serbia  dominated  the  Balkans  under  Stefan  Dusan  (1331-55), 
who  conquered  lands  extending  from  Belgrade  to  present-day 
southern  Greece.  He  proclaimed  himself  emperor,  elevated  the 
archbishop  of  Pec  to  the  level  of  patriarch,  and  wrote  a  new  legal 
code  combining  Byzantine  law  with  Serbian  customs.  Dusan  had 
ambitions  toward  a  weakened  Byzantine  Empire,  but  the  Byzan- 
tine emperor  suspected  his  intentions  and  summoned  the  Turks 
to  restrain  him.  Dusan  repelled  assaults  in  1345  and  1349  but  was 
defeated  in  1352.  He  then  offered  to  lead  an  alliance  against  the 
Turks  and  recognize  the  pope,  but  those  gambits  also  were  rejected. 

Rival  nobles  divided  Serbia  after  the  death  of  Dusan  in  1355, 
and  many  switched  loyalty  to  the  sultan  after  the  last  Nemanja  died 
in  1371 .  The  most  powerful  Serbian  prince,  Lazar  Hrebeljanovic, 
raised  a  multinational  force  to  engage  the  Turks  in  the  Battle  of 
Kosovo  Polje  on  St.  Vitus  Day  in  1389.  The  Turks  barely  defeat- 
ed Lazar,  and  both  he  and  the  sultan  were  killed.  The  defeat  did 
not  bring  immediate  Turkish  occupation  of  Serbia,  but  during  the 
centuries  of  Turkish  domination  that  followed,  the  Serbs  endowed 
the  battle  with  myths  of  honor  and  heroism  that  helped  them 
preserve  their  dignity  and  sense  of  nationhood.  Serbs  still  recite 
epic  poems  and  sing  songs  about  the  nobles  who  fell  at  Kosovo 
Polje;  the  anniversary  of  the  battle  is  the  Serbian  national  holi- 
day, Vidovdan  (St.  Vitus  Day),  June  28. 

Civil  war  in  the  Ottoman  Empire  saved  Serbia  in  the  early  fifteenth 
century,  but  the  Turks  soon  reunited  their  forces  to  conquer  the 


17 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


last  Serbian  stronghold  at  Smederjevo  in  1459  and  subjugate  the 
whole  country.  Serbs  fled  to  Hungary,  Montenegro,  Croatia,  Dalma- 
tia,  and  Bosnia,  and  some  formed  outiaw  bands.  In  response  to  the 
activities  of  the  latter,  the  Turks  disinterred  and  burned  the  remains 
of  St.  Sava.  By  the  sixteenth  century,  southern  Hungary  had  a  siz- 
able Serbian  population  that  remained  after  the  Turks  conquered 
the  region  in  1526.  Montenegro,  which  emerged  as  an  indepen- 
dent principality  after  the  death  of  Dusan,  waged  continual  guer- 
rilla war  on  the  Turks  and  never  was  conquered.  But  the  Turkish 
threat  did  force  Prince  Ivan  of  Montenegro  to  move  his  capital  high 
into  the  mountains.  There,  he  founded  a  monastery  and  set  up 
a  printing  press.  In  1516  Montenegro  became  a  theocratic  state. 

Social  and  economic  life  in  Serbia  changed  radically  under  the 
absolute  rule  of  the  Turkish  sultan.  The  Turks  split  Serbia  among 
several  provinces,  conscripted  Serbian  boys  into  their  elite  forces, 
exterminated  Serbian  nobles,  and  deprived  the  Serbs  of  contact 
with  the  West  as  the  Renaissance  was  beginning.  The  Turks  used 
the  Orthodox  Church  to  mediate  between  the  state  and  the  peasan- 
try, but  they  expropriated  most  church  lands.  Poorly  trained  Ser- 
bian priests  strove  to  maintain  the  decaying  national  identity.  In 
1459  the  sultan  subordinated  the  Serbian  church  to  the  Greek  patri- 
arch, but  the  Serbs  hated  Greek  dominance  of  their  church,  and 
in  1557  Grand  Vizier  Mehmed  Pasha  Sokolovic,  a  Serb  who  had 
been  inducted  into  the  Turkish  army  as  a  boy,  persuaded  the  sul- 
tan to  restore  autonomy  to  the  Serbian  church.  Turkish  maltreat- 
ment and  exploitation  grew  in  Serbia  after  the  sixteenth  century, 
and  more  Serbs  fled  to  become  mountain  outlaws,  or  hajduci.  Epic 
songs  of  the  hajduci  kept  alive  the  Serbs'  memory  of  the  glorious 
independence  of  the  past. 

From  1684  to  1689,  Christian  forces  attempted  to  push  the  Turks 
from  the  Balkans,  inciting  the  Serbs  to  rebel  against  their  Turkish 
overlords.  The  offensive  and  the  rebellion  ultimately  failed,  exposing 
the  Serbs  south  of  the  Sava  River  to  the  revenge  of  the  Turks.  Fear- 
ing Turkish  reprisals,  the  Serbian  patriarch  Arsenije  III  Carno- 
jevic  emigrated  in  1690  to  Austrian-ruled  southern  Hungary  with 
as  many  as  36,000  families.  The  Austrian  emperor  promised  these 
people  religious  freedom  and  the  right  to  elect  their  own  vojvoda, 
or  military  governor,  and  incorporated  much  of  the  region  where 
they  settled,  later  known  as  Vojvodina,  into  the  military  border. 
The  refugees  founded  new  monasteries  that  became  cultural  centers. 
In  Montenegro  Danilo  I  Petrovic  of  Njegos  (1696-1737)  became 
bishop-prince  and  instituted  the  succession  of  the  Petrovic-Njegos 
family.  His  efforts  to  unify  Montenegro  triggered  a  massacre  of 
Muslims  in  1702  and  subsequent  reprisals. 


18 


Historical  Setting 


Austrian  forces  took  Serbian  regions  south  of  the  Sava  from  the 
Ottoman  Empire  in  1718,  but  Jesuits  following  the  army  prosely- 
tized so  heavily  that  the  Serbs  came  to  hate  the  Austrians  as  well 
as  the  Turks.  In  the  eighteenth  century,  the  Turkish  economy  and 
social  fabric  began  deteriorating,  and  the  Serbs  who  remained  under 
the  Ottoman  Empire  suffered  attacks  from  bands  of  soldiers.  Cor- 
rupt Greek  priests  who  had  replaced  Serbian  clergy  at  the  sultan's 
direction  also  took  advantage  of  the  Serbs.  The  Serbs  in  southern 
Hungary  fared  much  better.  They  farmed  prosperously  in  the  fer- 
tile Danube  Plain.  A  Serbian  middle  class  arose,  and  the  monas- 
teries trained  scholars  and  writers  who  inspired  national  pride,  even 
among  illiterate  Serbs. 

The  eighteenth  century  brought  Russian  involvement  in  Euro- 
pean events,  particularly  in  competition  with  Austria  for  the  spoils 
of  the  Turkish  collapse.  The  Orthodox  Serbs  looked  to  the  tsar  for 
support,  and  Russia  forged  ties  with  Montenegro  and  the  Serbian 
church  in  southern  Hungary.  In  1774  Russia  won  the  diplomatic 
right  to  protect  Christian  subjects  of  the  Turks;  later  it  used  this 
right  as  a  pretext  to  intervene  in  Turkish  affairs.  When  Russia  and 
Austria  fought  another  war  with  the  Ottoman  Empire  in  1787  and 
1788,  Serbs  fought  guerrilla  batdes  against  the  Turks.  Austria  aban- 
doned the  campaign,  and  the  Serbs,  in  1791.  To  secure  their  front- 
ier, the  Turks  granted  their  Serbian  subjects  a  measure  of  autonomy 
and  formed  a  Serbian  militia.  Montenegro  expanded  in  the  late 
eighteenth  and  early  nineteenth  centuries.  Bishop-Prince  Petar  I 
Njegos  (1782-1830)  convinced  the  sultan  to  declare  that  the  Mon- 
tenegrins had  never  been  Turkish  subjects,  and  Montenegro  re- 
mained independent  through  the  nineteenth  century. 

In  1804  renegade  Turkish  soldiers  in  Belgrade  murdered  Serbi- 
an leaders,  triggering  a  popular  uprising  under  Karadjordje  ("Black 
George")  Petrovic,  founder  of  the  Karadjordjevic  Dynasty.  Rus- 
sia supported  the  Serbs,  and  the  sultan  granted  them  limited  au- 
tonomy (see  fig.  3).  But  internal  discord  weakened  the  government 
of  Karadjordje,  and  the  French  invasion  of  Russia  in  1812  prevented 
the  tsar  from  protecting  the  Serbs.  In  1813  the  Turks  attacked  rebel 
areas.  Karadjordje  fled  to  Hungary;  then  Turkish,  Bosnian,  and 
Albanian  troops  plundered  Serbian  villages.  The  atrocities  sparked 
a  second  Serbian  uprising  in  1815  that  won  autonomy  under  Turk- 
ish control  for  some  regions.  The  corrupt  rebel  leader  Milos 
Obrenovic  (1817-39)  had  Karadjordje  murdered  and  his  head  sent 
to  the  sultan  to  signal  Serbian  loyalty. 

In  1830  the  Ottoman  Empire  recognized  Serbia  as  a  principali- 
ty under  Turkish  control,  with  Milos  Obrenovic  as  hereditary 
prince.  The  sultan  also  granted  the  Serbian  Orthodox  Church 


19 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  3.  Expansion  of  Serbia,  1804-1913 


autonomy  and  reaffirmed  Russia's  right  to  protect  Serbia.  Poor  ad- 
ministration, corruption,  and  a  bloody  rivalry  between  the  Karad- 
jordjevic  and  Obrenovic  clans  marred  Serbian  political  life  from  its 
beginning.  After  the  sultan  began  allowing  foreign  governments  to 
send  diplomats  to  Serbia  in  the  1830s,  foreign  intervention  further 
complicated  the  situation.  Despite  these  obstacles  and  his  autocrat- 
ic manner,  however,  Milos  Obrenovic  stimulated  trade,  opened 
schools,  and  guided  development  of  peasant  lands.  He  abdicated 
in  1838  when  Turkey  imposed  a  constitution  to  limit  his  powers. 

In  the  eighteenth  and  nineteenth  centuries,  Serbian  culture  made 
significant  strides.  Dositej  Obradovic,  Vuk  Karadzic,  and  other 
scholars  accelerated  a  national  renaissance.  Through  his  translations 


20 


Historical  Setting 


and  autobiography,  Obradovic  spread  the  Enlightenment  to  the 
Serbs.  Collections  of  Serbian  folk  songs  and  poems  edited  by  Karad- 
zic awoke  pride  in  national  history  and  traditions.  Karadzic  also 
overcame  clerical  opposition  to  reform  the  Cyrillic  alphabet  and 
the  Serbian  literary  language,  and  he  translated  the  New  Testa- 
ment. His  work  widened  the  concept  of  Serbian  nationhood  to  in- 
clude language  as  well  as  religious  and  regional  identifications. 

The  European  revolutions  of  1848  brought  more  ferment  in  re- 
lations between  the  Serbs  and  their  neighbors.  As  part  of  their 
revolutionary  program,  the  Hungarians  threatened  to  Magyarize 
the  Serbs  in  Vojvodina.  Some  Serbs  there  declared  their  indepen- 
dence from  Hungary  and  proclaimed  an  autonomous  Vojvodina; 
others  rallied  behind  the  Austrian-Croatian  invasion  of  Hungary. 
The  Serbs  nearly  declared  war,  but  Russian  and  Turkish  diplomacy 
restrained  them.  The  Serbs  in  Hungary  gained  nothing  from  help- 
ing Austria  to  crush  the  revolution.  Vienna  ruled  Vojvodina  harshly 
after  1850  and  silenced  Serbian  irredentists  there.  When  Austria 
joined  Hungary  to  form  the  Dual  Monarchy  in  1867,  Vienna 
returned  Vojvodina  and  its  Serbs  to  Hungary.  Meanwhile,  Petar 
II  Njegos  of  Montenegro  (1830-51),  who  was  also  a  first-rate  poet, 
reformed  his  administration,  battled  the  Turks,  and  struggled  to 
obtain  a  seaport  from  the  Austrians.  His  successor,  Danilo  II 
(1851-60),  abolished  the  Montenegrin  theocracy. 

Prince  Mihajlo  Obrenovic  (1860-68),  son  of  Milos,  was  an  ef- 
fective ruler  who  further  loosened  the  Turkish  grip  on  Serbia. 
Western-educated  and  autocratic,  Mihajlo  liberalized  the  consti- 
tution and  in  1867  secured  the  withdrawal  of  Turkish  garrisons 
from  Serbian  cities.  Industrial  development  began  at  this  time, 
although  80  percent  of  Serbia's  1.25  million  people  remained  illit- 
erate peasants.  Mihajlo  sought  to  create  a  South  Slav  confedera- 
tion, and  he  organized  a  regular  army  to  prepare  for  liberation 
of  Turkish-held  Serbian  territory.  Scandal  undermined  Mihajlo 's 
popularity,  however,  and  he  was  eventually  assassinated. 

Political  parties  emerged  in  Serbia  after  1868,  and  aspects  of 
Western  culture  began  to  appear.  A  widespread  uprising  in  the 
Ottoman  Empire  prompted  an  unsuccessful  attack  by  Serbia  and 
Montenegro  in  1876,  and  a  year  later  those  countries  allied  with 
Russia,  Romania,  and  Bulgarian  rebels  to  defeat  the  Turks.  The 
subsequent  treaties  of  San  Stefano  and  Berlin  (1878)  made  Serbia 
an  independent  state  and  added  to  its  territory,  while  Montenegro 
gained  a  seacoast.  Alarmed  at  Russian  gains,  the  growing  stature 
of  Serbia,  and  irredentism  among  Vojvodina' s  Serbs,  Austria- 
Hungary  pressed  for  and  won  the  right  to  occupy  Bosnia,  Her- 
cegovina,  and  Novi  Pazar  in  1878.  Serbia's  Prince  Milan  Obrenovic 


21 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


(1868-89),  a  cousin  of  Mihajlo,  became  disillusioned  with  Russia 
and  fearful  of  the  newly  created  Bulgaria.  He  therefore  signed  a 
commercial  agreement  in  1880  that  made  Serbia  a  virtual  client 
state  of  Austria-Hungary.  Milan  became  the  first  king  of  modern 
Serbia  in  1882,  but  his  pro-Austro-Hungarian  policies  undermined 
his  popularity,  and  he  abdicated  in  1889. 

A  regency  ruled  Serbia  until  1893,  when  Milan's  teenage  son, 
Aleksandar  (1889-1903),  pronounced  himself  of  age  and  nullified 
the  constitution.  Aleksandar  was  widely  unpopular  in  Serbia  be- 
cause of  scandals,  arbitrary  rule,  and  his  position  favoring  Austria- 
Hungary.  In  1903  military  officers,  including  Dragutin  "Apis" 
Dimitrijevic,  brutally  murdered  Aleksandar  and  his  wife.  Europe 
condemned  the  killings,  which,  however,  were  celebrated  in  Bel- 
grade. Petar  Karadjordjevic  (1903-14),  who  knew  of  the  conspiracy, 
returned  from  exile  to  take  the  throne,  restored  and  liberalized  the 
constitution,  put  Serbian  finances  in  order,  and  improved  trade 
and  education.  Petar  turned  Serbia  away  from  Austria- Hungary 
and  toward  Russia,  and  in  1905  Serbia  negotiated  a  tariff  agree- 
ment with  Bulgaria,  hoping  to  break  the  Austro-Hungarian  mo- 
nopoly of  its  exports.  In  response  to  a  diplomatic  disagreement, 
Vienna  placed  a  punitive  tariff  on  livestock,  Serbia's  most  impor- 
tant export.  Serbia,  however,  refused  to  bend,  found  new  trade 
routes,  and  began  seeking  an  outlet  to  the  sea.  In  1908  Austria- 
Hungary  formally  annexed  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina,  frustrating 
Serbian  designs  on  those  regions  and  precipitating  an  international 
crisis.  The  Serbs  mobilized,  but  under  German  pressure  Russia 
persuaded  Belgrade  to  cease  its  protests.  Thereafter,  Belgrade  main- 
tained strict  official  propriety  in  its  relations  with  Vienna;  but 
government  and  military  factions  prepared  for  a  war  to  liberate  the 
Serbs  still  living  under  the  Turkish  yoke  in  Kosovo,  Macedonia, 
and  other  regions. 

Bosnia  and  Hercegovina 

In  the  seventh  century,  Croats  and  Serbs  settled  in  the  land  that 
now  makes  up  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina.  Dominance  of  the  regions 
shifted  among  the  Croatian,  Serbian,  Bulgarian,  and  Byzantine 
rulers  for  generations  before  the  Croatian  and  Hungarian  crowns 
merged  and  Hungary  dominated.  Foreign  interference  in  Bosnia 
and  Hercegovina  exacerbated  local  political  and  religious  hostili- 
ties and  ignited  bloody  civil  wars. 

The  heretical  Bogomil  faith  played  an  important  early  role  in 
Bosnian  politics.  Ban  Kulin  (1180-1204)  and  other  nobles  strug- 
gled to  broaden  Bosnian  autonomy,  rejected  the  Catholic  and 
Orthodox  faiths,  and  embraced  Bogomilism,  a  dualistic  offshoot 


22 


Tombstones  of  heretical  Bogomil  sect,  Bosnia 
Courtesy  Sam  and  Sarah  Stulberg 

of  Christianity.  The  Bogomils  enraged  the  papacy,  and  the  Catholic 
kings  of  Hungary  persecuted  them  to  exterminate  the  heresy  and 
secure  Hungarian  rule  over  Bosnia.  Kulin  recanted  his  conversion 
under  torture,  but  the  Bogomil  faith  survived  crusades,  civil  war, 
and  Catholic  propaganda. 

In  the  fourteenth  century,  Bosnia  became  a  formidable  state 
under  the  rule  of  Ban  Stefan  Tvrtko  I  (1353-91).  Tvrtko  joined 
Bosnia  with  the  principality  of  Hum,  forerunner  of  Hercegovina, 
and  attempted  to  unite  the  South  Slavs  under  his  rule.  After  the 
Serbian  Nemanja  Dynasty  expired  in  1371,  Tvrtko  was  crowned 
king  of  Bosnia  and  Raska  in  1377,  and  he  later  conquered  parts 
of  Croatia  and  Dalmatia.  Bosnian  troops  fought  beside  the  Serbs 
at  Kosovo  Polje.  After  that  defeat,  Tvrtko  turned  his  attention  to 
forming  alliances  with  Western  states.  Rival  nobles  and  religious 
groups  vied  to  gain  control  of  Bosnia  after  the  death  of  Tvrtko; 
one  noble  in  Hum  won  the  tide  of  "Herzeg"  (German  for  "duke"), 
whence  the  name  "Hercegovina." 

The  fifteenth  century  marked  the  beginning  of  Turkish  rule  in 
Bosnia.  Most  of  Bosnia  was  taken  in  1463,  Hercegovina  in  1483. 
Many  Orthodox  and  Roman  Catholics  fled,  while  Bogomil  nobles 
converted  to  Islam  to  retain  their  land  and  feudal  privileges.  They 
formed  a  unique  Slavic  Muslim  aristocracy  that  exploited  its  Christian 


23 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


and  Muslim  serfs  for  centuries  and  eventually  grew  fanatical  and 
conservative.  Turkish  governors  supervised  Bosnia  and  Hercego- 
vina  from  their  capitals  at  Travnik  and  Mostar,  respectively,  but 
few  Turks  actually  settled  in  these  territories.  Economic  life 
declined,  and  the  regions  grew  isolated  from  Europe  and  even  Con- 
stantinople. As  the  sultan's  military  expenses  grew,  small  farms 
were  replaced  by  large  estates,  and  peasant  taxes  were  raised  sub- 
stantially. When  the  Ottoman  Empire  weakened  in  the  seventeenth 
century,  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  became  pawns  in  the  struggle 
among  Austria,  Russia,  and  the  Turks. 

The  nineteenth  century  in  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  brought  al- 
ternating Christian  peasant  revolts  against  the  Slavic  Muslim  land- 
holders and  Slavic  Muslim  rebellions  against  the  sultan.  In  1850 
the  Turkish  government  stripped  the  conservative  Slavic  Muslim 
nobles  of  power,  shifted  the  capital  of  Bosnia  to  Sarajevo,  and  in- 
stituted centralized,  highly  corrupt  rule.  Austrian  capital  began  to 
enter  the  regions,  financing  primitive  industries  and  fostering  a 
new  Christian  middle  class.  But  the  mosdy  Christian  serfs  con- 
tinued to  suffer  the  corruption  and  high  rates  of  the  Turkish  tax 
system.  In  1875  a  peasant  uprising  in  Hercegovina  sparked  an  all- 
out  rebellion  in  the  Balkan  provinces,  provoking  a  European  war. 
The  Treaty  of  Berlin,  which  followed  the  Turkish  defeat  of  1878, 
gave  Austria-Hungary  the  right  to  occupy  Bosnia  and  Hercegovi- 
na to  restore  local  order. 

The  Treaty  of  Berlin  brought  a  period  of  manipulation  by  the 
Austro-Hungarian  Empire.  The  empire  suppressed  Muslim  and 
Orthodox  opposition  to  the  occupation  and  introduced  an  orderly 
administration.  But  it  retained  the  feudal  system  because  Bosnia 
and  Hercegovina  technically  remained  Turkish  states.  Seeking  to 
increase  the  Catholic  population  of  Bosnia,  Vienna  sent  Austrian, 
Hungarian,  Croatian,  and  Polish  administrators  and  colonized 
northern  Bosnia  with  Catholic  Slavs  and  Germans.  The  adminis- 
trator of  the  regions,  Baron  Benjamin  Kallay  (1882-1903),  fostered 
economic  growth,  reduced  lawlessness,  improved  sanitation,  built 
roads  and  railroads,  and  established  schools.  However,  Kallay,  a 
Hungarian,  exploited  strong  nationalist  differences  among  the  Mus- 
lim Slavs,  Catholic  Croats,  and  Orthodox  Serbs. 

At  the  turn  of  the  century,  nationalist  differences  reached  the 
point  of  explosion.  Fearful  that  Turkey  might  demand  the  return 
of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  after  a  revolutionary  government  was 
established  in  Constantinople,  Austria- Hungary  precipitated  a 
major  European  crisis  by  annexing  the  regions  in  October  1908. 
Serbia,  which  had  coveted  the  regions,  mobilized  for  war.  The  crisis 
subsided  a  year  later  when  Russia  and  Serbia  bowed  to  German 


24 


Historical  Setting 


pressure  and  all  Europe  recognized  the  Serbian  annexation  as  a 
fait  accompli.  Domination  by  Austria  had  embittered  the  ethnic 
groups  of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina.  Muslim  Slavs  resented  Turk- 
ish withdrawal  from  the  Balkans;  the  Croats  looked  initially  to  Vien- 
na for  support  but  were  increasingly  disappointed  by  its  response; 
and  the  Bosnian  Serbs,  deeply  dissatisfied  with  continued  serfdom, 
looked  to  Serbia  for  aid. 

Macedonia 

In  its  earliest  history,  Macedonia  was  ruled  by  the  Bui  gars  and 
the  Byzantines,  who  began  a  long  tradition  of  rivalry  over  that  ter- 
ritory. Slavs  invaded  and  settled  Byzantine  Macedonia  late  in  the 
sixth  century,  and  in  A.D.  679  the  Bulgars,  a  Turkic  steppe  peo- 
ple, crossed  into  the  Balkans  and  directly  encountered  the  Byzan- 
tine Empire.  The  Bulgars  commingled  with  the  more  numerous 
Slavs  and  eventually  abandoned  their  Turkic  mother  tongue  in  favor 
of  the  Slavic  language.  The  Byzantines  and  Bulgars  ruled  Macedo- 
nia alternately  from  the  ninth  to  the  fourteenth  century,  when  Stefan 
Dusan  of  Serbia  conquered  it  and  made  Skopje  his  capital.  A  local 
noble,  Vukasin,  called  himself  king  of  Macedonia  after  the  death 
of  Dusan,  but  the  Turks  annihilated  Vukasin 's  forces  in  1371  and 
assumed  control  of  Macedonia. 

The  beginning  of  Turkish  rule  meant  centuries  of  subjugation 
and  cultural  deprivation  in  Macedonia.  The  Turks  destroyed  the 
Macedonian  aristocracy,  enserfed  the  Christian  peasants,  and  even- 
tually amassed  large  estates  and  subjected  the  Slavic  clergy  to  the 
Greek  patriarch  of  Constantinople.  The  living  conditions  of  the 
Macedonian  Christians  deteriorated  in  the  seventeenth  and  eigh- 
teenth centuries  as  Turkish  power  declined.  Greek  influence  in- 
creased, the  Slavic  liturgy  was  banned,  and  schools  and  monasteries 
taught  Greek  language  and  culture.  In  1777  the  Ottoman  Empire 
eliminated  the  autocephalous  Bulgarian  Orthodox  Church  and  the 
archbishopric  of  Ohrid.  Because  of  such  actions,  the  Slavic  Macedo- 
nians began  to  despise  Greek  ecclesiastical  domination  as  much 
as  Turkish  political  oppression. 

In  the  nineteenth  century,  the  Bulgars  achieved  renewed  national 
self- awareness,  which  influenced  events  in  Macedonia.  The  sul- 
tan granted  the  Bulgars  ecclesiastical  autonomy  in  1870,  creating 
an  independent  Bulgarian  Orthodox  Church.  Nationalist  Bulgar- 
ian clergymen  and  teachers  soon  founded  schools  in  Macedonia. 
Bulgarian  activities  in  Macedonia  alarmed  the  Serbian  and  Greek 
governments  and  churches,  and  a  bitter  rivalry  arose  over  Macedo- 
nia among  church  factions  and  advocates  of  a  Greater  Bulgaria, 
Greater  Serbia,  and  Greater  Greece.  The  1878  Russo-Turkish  War 


25 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

drove  the  Turks  from  Bulgarian-populated  lands,  and  the  Treaty 
of  San  Stefano  (1878)  created  a  large  autonomous  Bulgaria  that 
included  Macedonia.  The  subsequent  Treaty  of  Berlin  (1878), 
however,  restored  Macedonia  to  the  Ottoman  Empire,  and  left  the 
embittered  Bulgars  with  a  much-diminished  state. 

The  Bulgarian-Greek- Serbian  rivalry  for  Macedonia  escalated 
in  the  1890s,  and  nationalistic  secret  societies  proliferated.  Macedo- 
nian refugees  in  Bulgaria  founded  the  Supreme  Committee  for 
Liberation  of  Macedonia,  which  favored  Bulgarian  annexation  and 
recruited  its  own  military  force  to  confront  Turkish  units  and  rival 
nationalist  groups  in  Macedonia.  In  1896  Macedonians  founded 
the  Internal  Macedonian  Revolutionary  Organization  (IMRO), 
whose  two  main  factions  divided  the  region  into  military  districts, 
collected  taxes,  drafted  recruits,  and  used  tactics  of  propaganda 
and  terrorism. 

A  1902  uprising  in  Macedonia  provoked  Turkish  reprisals,  and 
in  1903  IMRO  launched  a  widespread  rebellion  that  the  Turks 
could  not  suppress  for  several  months.  After  that  event,  the  sultan 
agreed  to  a  Russian  and  Austrian  reform  scheme  that  divided 
Macedonia  into  five  zones  and  assigned  British,  French,  Italian, 
Austrian,  and  Russian  troops  to  police  them.  Pro-Bulgarian  and 
pro-Greek  groups  continued  to  clash,  while  the  Serbs  intensified 
their  efforts  in  northern  Macedonia.  In  1908  the  Young  Turks, 
a  faction  of  Turkish  officers  who  promised  liberation  and  equali- 
ty, deposed  the  sultan.  The  Europeans  withdrew  their  troops  when 
Serbs  and  Bulgars  established  friendly  relations  with  the  zealous 
Turks.  But  the  nationalist  Young  Turks  began  imposing  central- 
ized rule  and  cultural  restrictions,  exacerbating  Christian-Muslim 
friction.  Serbia  and  Bulgaria  ended  their  differences  in  1912  by 
a  treaty  that  defined  their  respective  claims  in  Macedonia.  A  month 
later,  Bulgaria  and  Greece  signed  a  similar  agreement. 

The  Balkan  Wars,  World  War  I,  and  the  Formation 
of  Yugoslavia,  1912-18 

The  Balkan  wars  and  World  War  I  had  dramatic  consequen- 
ces for  the  South  Slavs.  In  the  Balkan  wars,  Serbia  helped  expel 
the  Turks  from  Europe  and  regained  lands  lost  in  medieval  times. 
By  1914  the  alliances  of  Europe  and  the  ethnic  friction  among  the 
South  Slavs  had  combined  to  make  Bosnia  the  ignition  point,  and 
Serbia  one  of  the  main  battlegrounds,  of  World  War  I.  When 
Austria-Hungary  collapsed  at  the  end  of  the  war,  fear  of  an  ex- 
pansionist Italy  inspired  Serbian,  Croatian,  and  Slovenian  lead- 
ers to  form  the  new  federation  known  as  Yugoslavia,  "the  land 
of  the  South  Slavs." 


26 


Historical  Setting 


The  Balkan  Wars  and  World  War  I 

In  1912  Turkish  chauvinism  and  atrocities  combined  with  Al- 
banian insurgency  to  galvanize  Serbia,  Bulgaria,  and  Greece.  In 
the  First  Balkan  War,  October  1912  to  May  1913,  these  nations 
joined  Montenegro  to  oust  the  Ottoman  Empire  from  the  Balkans. 
Besides  capturing  western  Macedonia,  Kosovo,  and  other  Serbian- 
populated  regions,  Serbian  forces  moved  through  purely  Albanian- 
populated  lands  to  the  Adriatic.  Austria- Hungary  convinced  the 
major  European  powers  to  create  an  independent  Albania  to  deny 
Serbia  an  Adriatic  outlet,  and  it  forced  Serbia  to  remove  its  troops 
from  Albanian  territory.  The  Treaty  of  London  (1913)  awarded 
the  Serbs  almost  all  remaining  Ottoman  lands  in  Europe,  but  there 
was  immediate  conflict  over  the  division  of  Macedonia.  With 
Austro-Hungarian  approval,  Bulgaria  attacked  its  erstwhile  allies 
in  June  1913,  triggering  the  Second  Balkan  War.  This  time  Ser- 
bia, Montenegro,  Greece,  Romania,  and  Turkey  defeated  Bulgaria 
and  eliminated  the  possibility  of  Bulgarian  participation  in  a  South 
Slav  state.  Its  victories  filled  Serbia  with  confidence  and  doubled 
its  size.  But  the  wars  also  weakened  the  country  and  left  it  with 
hostile  neighbors  and  bitter  Macedonian  and  Albanian  minorities. 

Serbian  victories  and  the  Serbs'  obvious  contempt  for  Austria- 
Hungary  brought  hostility  from  Vienna  and  anti-Habsburg  senti- 
ment in  all  the  empire's  South  Slavic  regions,  especially  Bosnia 
and  Hercegovina.  Confident  behind  German  military  protection, 
the  high  command  of  Austria-Hungary  lobbied  for  war  to  eliminate 
Serbia.  Serbia's  alliance  with  Russia  also  encouraged  the  growth 
of  expansionist,  nationalist  secret  societies  in  the  Serbian  army. 
The  most  significant  of  these  societies  was  the  Black  Hand,  a  group 
of  army  officers  who  dominated  the  army  and  influenced  the  govern- 
ment from  1911  to  1917. 

In  1914  Archduke  Franz  Ferdinand,  heir  to  the  Habsburg  throne 
and  a  longtime  advocate  of  equality  for  the  South  Slavs  in  the  em- 
pire, made  an  ill-prepared  visit  to  Bosnia.  On  Vidovdan,  Bosnian 
student  Gavrilo  Princip  assassinated  the  archduke  and  the  arch- 
duchess in  Sarajevo.  The  Black  Hand  had  armed  and  trained  the 
assassin,  but  historians  doubt  that  the  rulers  of  Serbia  had  approved 
the  plot.  Nevertheless,  on  July  23  Austria- Hungary  sent  an  ultima- 
tum, threatening  war  unless  Serbia  allowed  Vienna  to  join  the  mur- 
der investigation  and  suppress  secret  societies.  Even  the  German 
kaiser  felt  that  Serbia  met  the  Austrian  demands,  but  war  was  de- 
clared, the  existing  alliance  structure  of  Europe  went  into  force,  and 
World  War  I  began.  The  Central  Powers — Germany,  Austria-Hun- 
gary, and  the  Ottoman  Empire — faced  the  Triple  Entente — France, 


27 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Britain,  and  Russia.  The  Croats.  Slovenes,  and  many  Serbs  in 
Austria- Hungary  went  to  war  against  Serbia  and  Montenegro. 

Despite  overwhelming  odds.  Serbia  twice  cleared  its  soil  of  in- 
vading Austro-Hungarian  armies  early  in  the  war.  and  late  in  1914 
plans  were  announced  to  unite  the  Serbs.  Croats,  and  Slovenes 
in  a  South  Slavic  state.  Italy  joined  the  Triple  Entente  in  1915  and 
attacked  Austria-Hungary:  then  Bulgaria  joined  the  side  of  Austria- 
Hungary  in  the  fall  of  that  year.  With  French  and  Italian  forces 
waiting  in  nearby  Salonika.  German.  Austro-Hungarian.  and  Bul- 
garian forces  attacked  Serbia  in  October  1915.  The  Serbian  army, 
weakened  by  typhus,  escaped  through  Montenegro  and  .Albania 
in  midwinter,  suffering  heavy  losses.  After  Italian  units  in  Alba- 
nia denied  support.  French  ships  evacuated  the  remaining  Serbi- 
an forces  to  Corfu. 

Austria-Hungary  and  Bulgaria  occupied  Serbia  and  Montenegro 
after  the  retreat.  After  recovering,  the  Serbian  army  helped  the 
French  and  British  capture  Bitola  in  September  1916.  Entente  ar- 
mies remained  inactive  there  until  the  Central  Powers  began  to 
disintegrate.  They  then  routed  the  Bulgarians  in  September  1918. 
swept  Austro-Hungarian  and  German  forces  from  Serbia,  and  en- 
tered Hungary.  In  November  Austria- Hungary  collapsed,  and  the 
war  ended.  World  War  I  destroyed  one-fourth  of  Montenegro's 
population  and  several  hundred  thousand  Croats  and  Slovenes.  Ser- 
bia lost  about  850.000  people,  a  quarter  of  its  prewar  population, 
and  half  its  prewar  resources. 

Formation  of  the  South  Slav  State 

The  idea  of  an  independent  South  Slav  state  advanced  during 
World  War  I.  especially  after  Bolshevik  Russia  disclosed  the  secret 
1915  Treaty  of  London,  in  which  the  Entente  had  promised  to 
award  Istria  and  much  of  Dalmatia  and  the  Slovenian  lands  to  Italy. 
Because  they  feared  Italian  domination.  Ante  Trumbic  and  other 
Dalmatian  leaders  formed  the  London-based  Yugoslav  Commit- 
tee to  promote  creation  of  a  South  Slav  state.  In  July  191 7.  Nikola 
Pasic  of  Serbia  and  Trumbic  signed  the  Declaration  of  Corfu,  which 
called  for  a  union  of  Serbs.  Croats,  and  Slovenes  in  one  nation 
with  a  smgle  democratic,  constitutional,  parliamentary  system  under 
the  Kara  djordje  vie  Dynasty.  The  declaration  promised  equal  recog- 
nition of  the  Latin  and  Cyrillic  alphabets,  the  three  national  names 
and  flags,  and  the  three  predominant  religions.  However,  it  did 
not  indicate  whether  the  new  state  would  be  centralized  or  feder- 
al. Pasic  advocated  a  centralized  state:  Trumbic  pressed  for  a  fed- 
eration. 


28 


Historical  Setting 


The  authority  of  Austria- Hungary  over  its  South  Slav  lands 
ended  in  October  1918,  and  the  National  Council  of  Slovenes, 
Croats,  and  Serbs  became  the  de  facto  government  of  the  regions 
under  Antun  Korosec.  On  October  29,  the  Sabor  in  Zagreb  an- 
nulled the  union  of  Croatia  with  Hungary  and  gave  the  National 
Council  supreme  authority.  In  November  Pasic,  Trumbic,  and 
Korosec  signed  an  agreement  in  Geneva,  providing  for  a  joint  provi- 
sional government  but  recognizing  the  jurisdiction  of  Serbia  and 
the  National  Council  in  the  areas  under  their  respective  control, 
until  a  constituent  assembly  could  convene.  But  the  war  ended  very 
rapidly,  and  Italy  began  seizing  parts  of  Dalmatia.  This  prompt- 
ed the  National  Council  to  seal  a  quick  final  agreement  with  Serbia, 
over  the  objections  of  Croatia's  Peasant  Party,  without  obtaining 
guarantees  of  regional  autonomy.  Leaders  in  Bosnia  and  Hercego- 
vina  and  Vojvodina  favored  union;  on  November  24,  the  Mon- 
tenegrins deposed  the  Njegos  Dynasty  and  declared  solidarity  with 
Serbia.  On  December  1,  Prince  Regent  Aleksandar  Karadjor- 
djevic  and  delegates  from  the  National  Council,  Vojvodina,  Bos- 
nia and  Hercegovina,  and  Montenegro  announced  the  founding 
of  the  Kingdom  of  the  Serbs,  Croats,  and  Slovenes,  to  be  ruled 
by  Aleksandar.  The  Paris  Peace  Conference  recognized  the  king- 
dom in  May  1919. 

The  Kingdom  of  Yugoslavia 

Ethnic  hatred,  religious  rivalry,  language  barriers,  and  cultural 
conflicts  plagued  the  Kingdom  of  the  Serbs,  Croats,  and  Slovenes 
(later  renamed  the  Kingdom  of  Yugoslavia)  from  its  inception  (see 
fig.  4).  The  question  of  centralization  versus  federalism  bitterly 
divided  the  Serbs  and  Croats;  democratic  solutions  were  blocked, 
and  dictatorship  was  made  inevitable  because  political  leaders  had 
little  vision,  no  experience  in  parliamentary  government,  and  no 
tradition  of  compromise.  Hostile  neighboring  states  resorted  to  regi- 
cide to  disrupt  the  kingdom,  and  only  when  European  war  threat- 
ened in  1939  did  the  Serbs  and  Croats  attempt  a  setdement.  But 
that  solution  came  too  late  to  matter.  The  Kingdom  of  the  Serbs, 
Croats,  and  Slovenes  encompassed  most  of  the  Austrian  Slovenian 
lands,  Croatia,  Slavonia,  most  of  Dalmatia,  Serbia,  Montenegro, 
Vojvodina,  Kosovo,  the  Serbian-controlled  parts  of  Macedonia,  and 
Bosnia  and  Hercegovina.  Territorial  disputes  disrupted  relations 
with  Italy,  Austria,  Hungary,  Bulgaria,  and  Albania.  Italy  posed  the 
most  serious  threat  to  the  new  kingdom.  Although  it  received  Za- 
dar,  Istria,  Trieste,  and  several  Adriatic  islands  in  the  postwar 
treaties  and  took  Rijeka  by  force,  Italy  resented  not  receiving  all 
the  territory  promised  under  the  1915  Treaty  of  London.  Rome 


29 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Gordon  C.  McDonald  et  al.,  Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study, 
Washington,  1971,  44. 

Figure  4.  South  Slav  Territories  at  Formation  of  Yugoslav  State,  1918-19 

subsequently  supported  Croatian,  Macedonian,  and  Albanian  ex- 
tremists, hoping  to  stir  unrest  and  hasten  the  end  of  the  new  king- 
dom. Revisionist  Hungary  and  Bulgaria  also  backed  anti- Yugoslav 
groups. 

The  creation  of  Yugoslavia  fulfilled  the  dreams  of  many  South 
Slavic  intellectuals  who  disregarded  fundamental  differences  among 
12  million  people  of  the  new  country.  The  Serbs,  Croats,  and  Slo- 
venes had  conflicting  political  and  cultural  traditions,  and  the 
South  Slav  kingdom  also  faced  sizable  non-Slavic  minorities,  in- 
cluding Germans,  Albanians,  Hungarians,  Romanians,  and  Turks, 
with  scatterings  of  Italians,  Greeks,  Czechs,  Slovaks,  Ruthe- 
nians,  Russians,  Poles,  Bui  gars,  Sephardic  and  Ashkenazic  Jews, 
and  Gypsies.  The  Orthodox,  Roman  Catholic,  Islamic,  Uniate, 


30 


Historical  Setting 


Jewish,  and  Protestant  faiths  all  were  well  established  and  cut  across 
ethnic  and  territorial  lines.  Besides  the  divisiveness  of  a  large  num- 
ber of  minority  languages,  linguistic  differences  also  split  the  Serbs, 
Croats,  Slovenes,  and  Macedonian  Slavs.  Many  people  regarded 
the  new  government  and  its  laws  as  alien,  exploitative,  and  second- 
ary to  kinship  loyalties  and  traditions. 

Political  Life  in  the  1920s 

Serbia's  Radical  Party  and  Democratic  Party  and  Croatia's 
Peasant  Party  competed  with  and  allied  with  a  large  number  of 
other  ethnic  and  sectarian  parties,  so  that  no  single  party  ever  gained 
a  majority.  The  Radical  Party  under  Pasic,  the  strongest  party  in 
the  country,  drew  backing  from  Serbia  proper  (see  Glossary)  and 
advocated  strong  central  control  under  Serbian  leadership.  The 
Peasant  Party  under  Stjepan  Radic  dominated  Croatia  and  cam- 
paigned for  an  independent  Croatian  state  and  agrarian  socialism. 
The  Democratic  Party  found  support  mostly  from  Serbs  outside 
Serbia;  after  initially  advocating  centralism,  it  turned  to  an  oppo- 
sition agenda. 

The  Serbian-Croatian  rivalry,  which  was  a  clash  of  uncom- 
promising advocates  of  central  rule  and  regional  autonomy, 
produced  the  main  political  conflict  in  Yugoslavia.  In  November 
1920,  voters  chose  delegates  to  a  constituent  assembly.  The  Radic 
party  won  nearly  all  Croatian  seats  but,  adopting  an  obstructionist 
strategy  that  had  been  typical  of  Croatian  politics  under  the  Dual 
Monarchy,  boycotted  the  assembly.  When  other  anticentralist 
groups  left  the  assembly  in  1921 ,  the  Radicals  and  Democrats  won 
by  default  the  opportunity  to  adopt  a  centralist  constitution.  This 
document  provided  some  liberties  but  allowed  little  room  for  local 
initiative  or  popular  democracy,  and  it  gave  non- Serbs  inadequate 
legal  expression  of  their  discontent.  Communists  attempted  to  as- 
sassinate King  Aleksandar  the  day  after  the  constitution  took  ef- 
fect and  murdered  the  interior  minister  a  month  later.  The  new 
Federal  Assembly  (Skupstina)  then  passed  broad  security  laws  to 
suppress  the  Communist  Party  of  Yugoslavia,  which  had  gained 
considerable  support  with  worker  groups  and  poor  peasants  in  the 
south. 

Radic  campaigned  at  home  and  abroad  for  Croatian  autonomy, 
even  seeking  support  in  the  Soviet  Union — a  country  the  kingdom 
did  not  recognize.  The  Peasant  Party  boycott  of  the  Federal  As- 
sembly lasted  until  1924,  when  a  dissident  coalition  of  Democrats, 
Slovenes,  and  Muslims  forced  the  Radicals  from  power.  King 
Aleksandar  then  appointed  an  anticentralist  prime  minister. 
Charges  of  corruption  and  Radic' s  harsh  criticism  of  the  Serbian 


31 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

establishment  undermined  the  new  cabinet.  The  Radicals  soon 
regained  power,  arrested  Radic  for  sedition,  and  threatened  to  ban 
his  party. 

Political  realities,  including  the  threat  posed  by  fascist  Italy  to 
Croatia,  induced  Radic  in  1925  to  strike  a  deal  with  Aleksandar 
to  recognize  the  monarchy  and  to  join  a  government  coalition  led 
by  Pasic.  This  union  lasted  until  a  corruption  scandal  forced  Pasic 
to  resign  in  1926.  Thereafter,  weak  coalitions  failed  to  maintain 
stability,  the  Croats  returned  to  obstructionism,  and  floor  debates 
in  the  Federal  assembly  often  became  violent.  In  June  1928,  a  Mon- 
tenegrin deputy  shot  Radic,  who  died  two  months  later.  Deputies 
from  Croatia  and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  soon  left  the  assembly, 
demanding  a  federal  state.  Fearing  anarchy,  Aleksandar  abrogat- 
ed the  constitution  in  January  1929,  dissolved  the  assembly,  banned 
political  parties,  and  declared  a  temporary  royal  dictatorship. 

While  the  Serbian-Croatian  conflict  occupied  center  stage,  an 
equally  bitter  conflict  arose  between  the  Serbs  and  the  ethnic  Al- 
banians in  Kosovo.  Serbs  consider  Kosovo  to  be  hallowed  ground, 
but  their  exclusive  hold  on  the  region  slipped  during  the  Ottoman 
tyranny  in  the  late  seventeenth  century,  and  many  Serbs  fled  Koso- 
vo for  Habsburg  protection.  After  the  mid-eighteenth  century,  Al- 
banians became  a  majority  in  Kosovo  and  began  oppressing  the 
Serbs  that  remained.  Between  1878  and  1912,  Serbs  left  Kosovo 
in  large  numbers;  in  1920  Belgrade  began  a  drive  to  resettle  Serbs 
in  the  region.  Coercion,  illegal  expropriation  of  Albanian-owned 
land,  and  forced  deportations  marred  this  campaign.  When  Alba- 
nians attacked  Serbian  settlements  and  government  institutions, 
the  police  seized  Albanian  property,  imprisoned  families,  and  de- 
stroyed homes.  The  government  adopted  a  similar  policy  in 
Macedonia. 

Economic  Life  and  Foreign  Policy  in  the  1920s 

Yugoslavia  inherited  formidable  economic  problems  after  World 
War  I.  The  new  kingdom  had  to  repair  war  damage,  repay  debts, 
eradicate  feudalism  by  passing  land  reform,  make  up  for  shortages 
of  capital  and  skilled  labor,  and  integrate  differing  customs  areas, 
currencies,  rail  networks,  and  banking  systems. 

The  agricultural  sector,  which  employed  over  75  percent  of  the 
Yugoslav  population,  underwent  a  radical  reform  that  failed  to 
relieve  nagging  rural  poverty.  Before  the  war,  German,  Austrian, 
and  Hungarian  families  owned  sprawling  estates  in  Slovenia,  Croa- 
tia, and  Vojvodina;  Turkish  feudalism  remained  in  Kosovo  and 
Macedonia;  Muslim  landlords  in  Bosnia  owned  large  farms  worked 
by  Christian  sharecroppers;  some  Dalmatians  remained  tenant 


32 


Historical  Setting 


farmers  in  a  system  devised  in  Roman  times;  and  Serbia  was  a 
chaotic  blend  of  independent  small  farms.  The  Yugoslav  govern- 
ment erased  remnants  of  feudalism,  but  the  peasants  received  plots 
too  small  for  efficient  farming  to  support  the  rural  population.  Yields 
fell,  and  poverty  and  ignorance  dominated  most  of  the  peasantry. 
Industrialization  and  emigration  did  not  ease  overpopulation. 

In  the  industrial  sector,  Yugoslavia  concentrated  on  extracting 
raw  materials,  expanding  light  industry,  and  improving  its  infra- 
structure. Insufficient  domestic  capital  forced  Yugoslavia  to  seek 
foreign  investment.  The  government  sold  mining  rights  to  foreign 
firms  and  borrowed  heavily  to  build  roads  and  rail  lines,  power 
plants,  and  a  merchant  marine.  Despite  steady  economic  growth 
based  on  the  food  industry,  mining,  and  textiles,  Yugoslavia 
remained  substantially  undeveloped  and  fell  far  behind  the  rest  of 
Europe.  Divergent  economic  interests  and  the  widening  differences 
in  development  of  Croatia  and  Slovenia  with  the  less  developed 
southern  regions  exacerbated  Serbian-Croatian  tensions.  The  devel- 
opment disparity  especially  embittered  many  Serbs,  who  believed 
that  their  sacrifices  in  the  war  had  benefited  former  enemies  more 
than  themselves. 

Yugoslavia's  foreign  policy  in  the  1920s  sought  to  counter  threats 
from  Italy,  Hungary,  and  Bulgaria  and  to  secure  regional  peace 
through  a  series  of  Balkan  alliances.  The  young  kingdom  was  a  char- 
ter member  of  the  League  of  Nations.  In  1921  and  1922,  Yugo- 
slavia, Romania,  and  Czechoslovakia  signed  mutual  defense  and 
political  treaties  aimed  at  blocking  a  Habsburg  restoration  and  block- 
ing the  ambitions  of  revisionist  Hungary.  This  alignment,  later 
known  as  the  Little  Entente,  won  support  from  France,  which  hoped 
to  block  Soviet  expansion  and  contain  Germany.  In  1927  Yugoslavia 
and  France  signed  a  treaty  of  friendship.  Though  it  was  the  focus 
of  Yugoslav  foreign  policy  for  the  next  decade,  this  treaty  included 
no  military  provisions  and  failed  to  relieve  the  fear  of  fascist  Italy. 

The  Royal  Dictatorship 

After  assuming  dictatorial  power,  Aleksandar  canceled  civil  lib- 
erties, abolished  local  self-government,  and  decreed  strict  laws 
against  sedition,  terrorism,  and  propagation  of  communism.  The 
king  named  a  Serb,  General  Petar  Zivkovic,  as  prime  minister,  offi- 
cially changed  the  name  of  the  country  to  the  Kingdom  of  Yugosla- 
via in  1929,  unified  the  six  regional  legal  systems,  and  restructured 
the  ministries.  The  king  attempted  to  ease  separatist  pressures  by 
replacing  traditional  provinces  with  a  new  territorial  unit,  the  bano- 
vina.  The  dictatorship  at  first  gained  wide  support  because  it  seemed 
to  make  government  more  efficient  and  less  corrupt. 


33 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

The  popularity  of  the  dictatorship  was  short  lived,  however.  Alek- 
sandar's  attempt  to  impose  unity  on  the  ethnic  groups  backfired, 
blocking  the  understanding  of  common  national  interests  and  un- 
leashing more  divisive  forces.  The  royal  dictatorship  unified  Croa- 
tian opposition  to  Serbian  hegemony  but  fractured  the  once-unified 
Serbian  parties.  The  police  violently  suppressed  expressions  of  com- 
munism and  ethnic  dissidence.  The  state  imprisoned  Slovenian  and 
Muslim  politicians  and  tried  Vlatko  Macek,  successor  to  Radic, 
for  terrorist  activity.  Serbs  also  were  oppressed,  and  the  leader  of 
Serbia's  Democrats  left  the  country  in  protest.  Ultranationalist 
Croats  also  fled,  and  Italy  granted  asylum  to  Ante  Pavelic,  leader 
of  the  terrorist  Ustase  (see  Glossary). 

In  1931  Aleksandar  formally  ended  his  personal  rule  by  promul- 
gating a  constitution  that  provided  for  limited  democracy.  He  legal- 
ized political  parties  but  banned  religious,  ethnic,  and  regional 
groups  and  all  organizations  that  threatened  the  integrity  and  order 
of  the  state.  Hopelessly  divided  Serbian  and  Croatian  opposition 
leaders  could  not  even  agree  to  issue  a  common  statement  on  the 
new  constitution.  Only  the  candidates  of  Zivkovic  appeared  on  the 
ballot.  Serbs  protested  the  limitations  on  democratic  liberties;  the 
government  imprisoned  Macek,  causing  unrest  in  Croatia;  and  the 
ranks  of  the  Ustase  grew.  Despite  the  discontent,  Aleksandar  re- 
tained some  popularity  even  in  non-Serbian  regions. 

In  1931  the  world  economic  crisis  hit  Yugoslavia  hard.  Foreign 
trade  slumped,  and  the  trade  deficit  rose.  Collapsing  world  grain 
prices,  the  end  of  German  reparations  payments,  and  exhaustion 
of  credit  sources  brought  unemployment.  Mines  closed,  bankrupt- 
cies increased,  and  severe  weather  conditions  brought  rural  star- 
vation. The  economic  crisis  also  brought  charges  that  the  Serbs 
were  exploiting  Croatia  and  Slovenia.  Finally,  French  refusal  of 
a  badly  needed  loan  shook  the  confidence  of  the  Yugoslav  govern- 
ment in  its  French  ally. 

Fearing  Italy  but  doubtful  of  France,  Aleksandar  made  unsuc- 
cessful offers  to  Mussolini  in  the  early  1 930s  and  attempted  to  build 
a  Balkan  alliance.  In  1934  Yugoslavia,  Romania,  Greece,  and  Tur- 
key signed  a  limited  mutual  defense  agreement,  later  known  as  the 
Balkan  Entente.  Bulgaria  refused  to  abandon  its  claims  to  Macedo- 
nia and  did  not  join  the  pact,  but  tensions  eased  between  Belgrade 
and  Sofia.  Fearing  a  vengeful,  stronger  Germany,  France  sought 
rapprochement  with  Italy  in  1934,  pressuring  Yugoslavia  to  do  like- 
wise. But  Yugoslavia  began  to  turn  to  Germany  instead  to  offset 
the  threat  from  Italy. 


34 


Historical  Setting 


The  Regency 

In  October  1934,  a  Bulgarian  assassinated  Aleksandar  in  Mar- 
seilles. The  assassin,  an  Ustase  agent,  had  received  assistance  from 
Italy  and  Hungary.  Yugoslavs  genuinely  grieved  for  their  king. 
Even  Aleksandar' s  opponents  feared  that  his  death  would  result 
in  the  disintegration  of  Yugoslavia.  Croats  and  Slovenes  especial- 
ly feared  subjection  to  Italy. 

Prince  Pavle,  cousin  of  Aleksandar,  created  a  three-man  regen- 
cy to  rule  for  Aleksandar' s  minor  son,  Petar  II.  Pavle  hoped  to 
liberalize  the  regime  and  reconcile  the  Serbs  and  Croats  without 
altering  the  1931  constitution.  The  government  freed  Macek  and 
in  1935  held  elections  that  revealed  significant  dissatisfaction.  Pavle 
soon  called  on  the  Serb  Milan  Stojadinovic  to  form  a  cabinet.  His 
new  government  granted  amnesty  to  political  prisoners  and  per- 
mitted political  parties  additional  leeway,  but  it  refused  to  restore 
democracy  and  failed  to  solve  the  Croatian  problem.  Croatian 
separatists  clashed  with  the  police;  communist-inspired  student  ac- 
tivists fomented  disorder;  and  Croatian  militia  organizations 
formed.  Macek  and  other  Croatian  leaders  welcomed  rising  domes- 
tic and  international  tensions  as  positive  forces  that  would  bring 
about  a  federalist  solution,  and  they  refused  to  compromise  or  even 
enumerate  their  demands  to  the  government.  Stojadinovic  incurred 
the  wrath  of  Serbian  nationalists  when  he  submitted  an  agreement 
with  the  Vatican  on  regulation  of  Catholic  affairs;  the  Federal  As- 
sembly canceled  the  agreement,  or  Concordat,  after  Orthodox  cler- 
gymen denounced  it. 

The  assassination  of  Aleksandar  deepened  Yugoslav  mistrust  of 
Italy,  but  confidence  in  France  and  Britain  also  dropped  after  those 
countries  refused  to  back  a  League  of  Nations  censure  of  Italy  for 
harboring  the  assassin.  Fearing  isolation,  Yugoslavia  strengthened 
its  ties  with  Germany,  which  became  the  main  trading  partner  of 
Yugoslavia  after  the  latter  voted  in  the  league  in  1935  to  impose 
economic  sanctions  on  Italy  for  invading  Ethiopia.  Under  Stojadi- 
novic, however,  movement  began  toward  setdements  with  Bulgaria 
and  Italy.  In  January  1937,  Yugoslavia  and  Bulgaria  signed  an 
eternal-friendship  pact,  violating  the  provisions  of  the  Little  En- 
tente and  weakening  the  Balkan  Entente.  In  March  Yugoslavia 
and  Italy  followed  up  a  1936  trade  agreement  with  a  treaty  of  friend- 
ship. In  December  Stojadinovic  visited  Mussolini  and  assured  him 
that  Yugoslavia  would  neither  strengthen  its  relationship  with 
Czechoslovakia  and  France  nor  recognize  the  Soviet  Union.  Still, 
Yugoslavia  drew  away  from  France  only  reluctantly,  and  public 
opinion  remained  firmly  attached  to  the  West. 


35 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Despite  the  support  for  democracy  professed  by  the  Stojadino- 
vic  government,  many  Yugoslavs  feared  he  aspired  to  become  a 
fascist  dictator.  His  supporters  adopted  the  fascist  salute  and 
uniformed  themselves  in  green  shirts.  The  dictatorial  air  of  Stojadi- 
novic,  the  Concordat,  and  accommodations  with  former  enemies 
roused  opponents  in  Serbia,  with  whom  Macek  struck  up  a  quick 
friendship.  Support  for  the  prime  minister  dropped  after  the  1938 
elections,  and  Pavle  forced  him  to  resign  in  February  1939.  Dragisa 
Cvetkovic  was  then  named  prime  minister. 

Germany  annexed  Austria  in  March  1938  and  smashed  the  Little 
Entente  by  partitioning  Czechoslovakia  later  in  the  year;  by  1939 
it  had  gained  a  stranglehold  on  the  Yugoslav  economy.  Pavle  and 
Cvetkovic  reaffirmed  Yugoslavia's  friendship  with  Germany  and 
Italy  but  tried  in  vain  to  loosen  Germany's  economic  grip  with  ap- 
peals to  Britain  and  France.  Belgrade  again  professed  friendship 
with  Berlin  and  Rome  after  Italy  occupied  Albania  in  April  1939; 
but  Yugoslav  popular  opinion  grew  more  adamantly  pro-Western, 
and  in  May  the  government  revealed  its  true  colors  by  secretiy  ship- 
ping its  gold  reserves  to  Britain  and  the  United  States.  Both  Ber- 
lin and  Rome  suspected  Yugoslavia's  motives. 

The  Sporazum,  Tripartite  Pact,  and  Outbreak  of  World  War  II 

Nationalist  strife  and  portents  of  war  induced  Pavle  to  shore  up 
national  unity  by  reconciling  the  Serbs  and  Croats.  On  August  26, 
1939,  after  months  of  negotiation,  Cvetkovic  and  Macek  sealed 
an  agreement,  the  Sporazum,  creating  an  autonomous  Croatia. 
Under  the  Sporazum,  Belgrade  continued  to  control  defense,  in- 
ternal security,  foreign  affairs,  trade,  and  transport;  but  an  elect- 
ed Sabor  and  a  crown-appointed  ban  would  decide  internal  matters 
in  Croatia.  Ironically,  the  Sporazum  fueled  separatism.  Macek  and 
other  Croats  viewed  autonomy  as  a  step  toward  full  Croatian  in- 
dependence, so  they  began  haggling  over  territory;  Serbs  attacked 
Cvetkovic,  charging  that  the  Sporazum  brought  no  return  to 
democracy  and  no  autonomy;  Muslims  demanded  an  autonomous 
Bosnia;  and  Slovenes  and  Montenegrins  espoused  federalism.  Pavle 
appointed  a  new  government  with  Cvetkovic  as  prime  minister  and 
Macek  as  vice  prime  minister,  but  it  gained  little  support. 

World  War  II  began  on  September  1 ,  1939.  The  collapse  of  France 
in  June  1940  crushed  Yugoslav  hopes  of  French  support.  When 
Greece  repelled  Italian  attacks  in  October  1940,  Mussolini  requested 
aid  from  Germany.  Berlin  in  turn  pressed  the  Balkan  countries  to 
sign  the  Tripartite  Pact  and  align  themselves  with  the  Axis  powers — 
Germany,  Italy,  and  Japan.  Romania  signed  in  November  1940, 
and  Bulgaria  in  March  1941 .  Now  virtually  surrounded  by  enemies, 


36 


Historical  Setting 


neutral  Yugoslavia  desperately  sought  allies.  It  recognized  the  Soviet 
Union  in  1940  and  signed  a  nonaggression  agreement  with  Moscow 
in  1941 .  When  Germany  redoubled  pressure  on  Yugoslavia  to  sign 
the  Tripartite  Pact,  Pavle  and  the  cabinet  stalled,  hoping  that  Ger- 
many would  attack  the  Soviet  Union  and  ease  the  pressure  on  them. 
Time  ran  out  for  Yugoslavia  on  March  25.  Convinced  that  the 
military  situation  of  the  country  was  hopeless,  the  government 
ignored  pro-Western  public  opinion  and  signed  a  protocol  of  adher- 
ence to  the  Tripartite  Pact.  In  return,  Hitler  guaranteed  that  Ger- 
many would  not  press  Yugoslavia  for  military  assistance,  move  its 
army  into  Yugoslav  territory,  or  violate  Yugoslav  sovereignty. 

On  March  27,  military  officers  overthrew  the  Cvetkovic-Macek 
cabinet,  declared  the  sixteen-year-old  Petar  II  king,  and  formed 
a  new  cabinet  under  General  Dusan  Simovic.  Anti-German  eu- 
phoria swept  Belgrade;  Yugoslav,  British,  French,  and  United 
States  flags  flew;  and  crowds  shouted  anti-Tripartite  slogans.  The 
demonstrations,  however,  unnerved  the  new  government,  which 
affirmed  Yugoslav  loyalty  to  the  Tripartite  Pact  because  of  the  coun- 
try's perilous  position.  But  the  declaration  did  not  convince  Hitier. 
On  April  6,  1941,  the  Luftwaffe  bombed  Belgrade,  killing  thou- 
sands. Axis  forces  then  invaded,  the  Yugoslav  army  collapsed,  the 
king  and  government  fled,  and  on  April  17  remaining  resistance 
forces  surrendered  unconditionally. 

Yugoslavia  in  World  War  II,  1941-45 

The  Axis  invasion  caused  panic  in  Yugoslavia  as  foreign  occu- 
piers partitioned  the  country  and  terrorized  its  people.  Bloody  en- 
counters involved  both  invading  and  domestic  forces  throughout 
the  four  years  of  war.  The  communist-led  Partisans  (see  Glossary) 
rose  from  near  oblivion  to  dominate  the  country's  resistance  move- 
ment. They  emerged  from  the  war  in  firm  control  of  the  entire 
country. 

Partition  and  Terror 

Germany,  Italy,  Hungary,  and  Bulgaria  dismembered  Yugo- 
slavia (see  fig.  5).  Germany  occupied  Serbia  and  part  of  Vojvodina. 
It  created  the  puppet  Independent  State  of  Croatia  (Nezavisna  drza- 
va  Hrvatska — NDH)  including  Croatia  and  Bosnia  and  Hercego- 
vina,  and  it  annexed  northern  Slovenia.  Italy  won  southern  Slovenia 
and  much  of  Dalmatia,  joined  Kosovo  with  its  Albanian  puppet 
state,  and  occupied  Montenegro.  Hungary  occupied  part  of  Voj- 
vodina and  Slovenian  and  Croatian  border  regions.  Bulgaria  took 
Macedonia  and  a  part  of  southern  Serbia. 

Germany  unleashed  a  reign  of  terror  and  Germanization  in 


37 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Germany,  Foreign  Ministry,  Documents  on  German  For- 
eign Policy,  1919-1945,  Washington,  1949. 


Figure  5.  Partition  of  Yugoslavia,  1941 

northern  Slovenia.  It  resettled  Slovenes  in  Serbia,  moved  German 
colonists  onto  Slovenian  farms,  and  attempted  to  erase  Slovenian 
cultural  institutions.  The  Catholic  hierarchy  collaborated  with  the 
authorities  in  Italian-occupied  southern  Slovenia,  which  suffered 
less  tyranny  than  the  north. 

Germany  and  Italy  supported  the  NDH  and  began  diverting 
natural  resources  to  the  Axis  war  machine.  When  Macek  refused 
to  collaborate,  the  Nazis  made  Ante  Pavelic  head  of  the  NDH.  His 
Ustase  storm  troopers  began  eliminating  the  2  million  Serbs,  Jews, 
and  Gypsies  in  the  NDH  through  forced  religious  conversion, 
deportation,  and  extreme  violence.  The  NDH  was  backed  en- 
thusiastically by  some  Croatian  Catholic  clergy,  including  the  arch- 
bishop of  Sarajevo;  some  Franciscan  priests  enlisted  in  the  Ustase 


38 


Historical  Setting 


and  participated  in  massacres.  The  archbishop  of  Zagreb,  Aloj- 
zije  Stepinac,  publicly  welcomed  and  appeared  with  Pavelic  while 
privately  protesting  NDH  atrocities.  Many  Catholic  priests, 
however,  condemned  the  violence  and  helped  Orthodox  Serbs  to 
practice  their  religion  in  secret.  Even  the  Germans  were  appalled 
by  Ustase  violence,  and  Berlin  feared  the  bloodbath  would  ignite 
greater  Serbian  resistance.  Italy  reoccupied  areas  of  Hercegovina 
to  halt  the  slaughter  there. 

Jews  and  Serbs  also  were  massacred  in  areas  occupied  by  the 
Albanians  and  the  Hungarians.  Thousands  of  Serbs  fled  to  Ser- 
bia, where  the  Germans  had  established  a  puppet  regime  under 
General  Milan  Nedic.  Nedic  considered  himself  a  custodian  rather 
than  a  collaborator  and  strove  to  limit  the  violence.  In  the  south 
of  Yugoslavia,  many  Macedonians  welcomed  Bulgarian  forces,  ex- 
pecting that  Sofia  would  grant  them  autonomy;  but  a  harsh  Bul- 
garianization  campaign  ended  their  enthusiasm. 

Resistance  in  Yugoslavia  developed  mainly  in  dispersed  units 
of  the  Yugoslav  army  and  among  Serbs  fleeing  genocide  in  Croa- 
tia and  Bosnia  and  Hercegpvina.  Various  armed  groups  in  Serbia 
organized  under  the  name  Cetnik  (pi.,  Cetnici — see  Glossary),  from 
the  Serbian  word  for  4 'detachment."  Some  Cetnici  supported  Ned- 
ic, others  the  communist-led  Partisan  guerrillas.  The  best  known 
Cetnici  were  the  followers  of  Colonel  Draza  Mihajlovic,  a  Serbian 
nationalist,  monarchist,  and  staunch  anticommunist.  Certain  that 
the  Allies  would  soon  invade  the  Balkans,  Mihajlovic  advised  his 
Cetnici  to  avoid  clashes  with  Axis  forces  and  prepare  for  a  general 
uprising  to  coincide  with  the  Allied  push.  In  October  1941,  Brit- 
ain recognized  Mihajlovic  as  the  leader  of  the  Yugoslav  resistance 
movement,  and  in  1942  the  government-in-exile  promoted  him  to 
commander  of  its  armed  forces. 

The  Resistance  Movement 

The  communist-led  Partisans  eventually  grew  into  Yugoslavia's 
largest,  most  active  resistance  group.  The  Communist  Party  of  Yu- 
goslavia (CPY)  had  sunk  into  obscurity  after  the  government 
banned  it  in  1921.  Police  repression,  internal  conflict,  and  the 
Stalinist  purges  of  the  1930s  depleted  party  membership,  and  by 
the  late  1 930s  its  leadership  in  Moscow  directed  only  a  few  hundred 
members  inside  Yugoslavia.  The  Partisan  leader,  Josip  Broz  Tito, 
son  of  a  Croatian- Slovenian  peasant  family,  had  joined  the  Red 
Guards  during  the  1917  Bolshevik  Revolution  and  become  a  party 
member  after  returning  to  Yugoslavia.  Tito  won  membership  in 
the  Central  Committee  of  the  CPY  in  1934,  then  became  secre- 
tary general  after  a  1937  purge.  In  the  four  years  before  the  war, 


39 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Tito  directed  a  communist  resurgence  and  built  a  strong  organi- 
zation of  12,000  full  party  members  and  30,000  members  of  the 
youth  organization.  The  party  played  some  role  in  demonstrations 
in  Belgrade  against  the  Tripartite  Pact,  and  it  called  for  a  general 
uprising  after  Hitler  attacked  the  Soviet  Union  in  June  1941.  The 
Partisan  slogan  "Death  to  Fascism,  Freedom  to  the  People,"  com- 
bined with  a  pan- Yugoslav  appeal,  won  recruits  for  Tito  across 
the  country — despite  the  fact  that  before  the  war  the  communists 
had  worked  for  the  breakup  of  Yugoslavia. 

In  July  1941,  with  some  Cetnik  support,  the  Partisans  launched 
uprisings  that  won  control  of  much  of  the  Yugoslav  countryside. 
The  Partisan  leaders  established  an  administration  and  proclaimed 
the  Uzice  Republic  in  western  Serbia.  But  in  September  the  Axis 
struck  back.  Germany  warned  that  it  would  execute  100  Serbs  for 
every  German  soldier  the  resistance  killed,  and  German  troops  killed 
several  thousand  civilians  at  Kragujevac  in  a  single  reprisal.  Tito 
correctly  reasoned  that  such  actions  would  enrage  the  population 
and  bring  the  Partisans  more  recruits,  so  he  disregarded  the  Ger- 
man threat  and  continued  his  guerrilla  warfare.  He  also  arranged 
assassinations  of  local  political  figures  and  ordered  attacks  on  the 
Cetnici  to  coincide  with  German  action  against  them.  Mihajlovic, 
however,  feared  that  German  reprisals  would  turn  into  a  Serbian 
massacre,  so  he  ordered  his  forces  not  to  engage  the  Germans.  Af- 
ter fruitless  negotiations  with  Tito,  the  Cetnik  leader  turned  against 
the  Partisans  as  his  main  enemy.  Cetnik  units  attacked  Partisans 
in  November  1941  and  began  cooperating  with  the  Germans  and 
Italians  to  prevent  a  communist  victory.  The  British  liaison  to  Mi- 
hajlovic advised  London  to  stop  supplying  the  Cetnici  after  the 
Uzice  attack,  but  Britain  continued  to  supply  Mihajlovic. 

In  late  1941,  the  Partisans  lost  control  of  western  Serbia,  Mon- 
tenegro, and  other  areas,  and  their  central  command  withdrew  into 
Bosnia.  Despite  the  setbacks,  Bosnian  Serbs  and  other  Yugoslavs 
flocked  to  the  Partisans.  The  Serbian-based  Cetnici  expanded  into 
Montenegro,  where  they  gained  local  and  Italian  support.  Soviet 
dictator  Joseph  V.  Stalin,  fearing  that  Partisan  action  might  weaken 
Allied  trust  of  the  Soviet  Union  and  suspicious  of  revolutionary 
movements  not  under  his  control,  reportedly  instructed  Tito  to  limit 
the  Partisans  to  national  liberation  and  antifascist  activities.  Moscow 
refused  to  supply  arms  to  Tito,  maintained  relations  with  the 
government-in-exile,  and  even  offered  a  military  mission  and  sup- 
plies to  the  Cetnici. 

At  Bihac  in  November  1942,  the  Partisan  leaders,  anxious  to 
gain  political  legitimacy,  convened  the  first  meeting  of  the  Antifas- 
cist Council  for  the  National  Liberation  of  Yugoslavia  (Antifasisticko 


40 


Historical  Setting 


vece  narodnog  oslobodjenja  Jugoslavije — AVNOJ),  a  committee 
of  communist  and  noncommunist  Partisan  representatives  from 
all  over  Yugoslavia.  AVNOJ  became  the  political  umbrella  organi- 
zation for  the  people's  liberation  committees  that  the  Partisans  es- 
tablished to  administer  territories  under  their  control.  AVNOJ 
proclaimed  support  for  democracy,  the  rights  of  ethnic  groups,  the 
inviolability  of  private  property,  and  freedom  of  individual  eco- 
nomic initiative.  Stalin  reportedly  barred  Tito  from  declaring  AV- 
NOJ a  provisional  government.  In  1943  Germany  mounted 
offensives  to  improve  its  control  of  Yugoslavia  in  anticipation  of 
an  Allied  invasion  of  the  Balkans.  The  Partisans,  fearing  that  an 
Allied  invasion  would  benefit  the  Cetnici,  attacked  Mihajlovic's 
forces.  In  March  the  Partisans  outmaneuvered  the  German  army 
and  defeated  the  Cetnici  decisively  in  Hercegovina  and  Mon- 
tenegro. In  May,  however,  German,  Italian,  Bulgarian,  and  NDH 
forces  surrounded  the  Partisans  and  launched  a  final  crushing  at- 
tack. In  fierce  combat  in  the  Sutjeska  Gorge,  the  Partisans  escaped 
encirclement.  This  proved  a  turning  point  in  their  fortunes;  when 
Italy  surrendered  in  September  1943,  the  Partisans  captured  Italian 
arms,  gained  control  of  coastal  territory,  and  began  receiving  sup- 
plies from  the  Allies  in  Italy. 

Tito  convened  a  second  session  of  AVNOJ  in  November  1943. 
This  session,  which  included  representatives  of  various  ethnic  and 
political  groups,  built  the  basis  for  the  postwar  government  of  Yu- 
goslavia. AVNOJ  voted  to  reconstitute  the  country  on  a  federal 
basis;  elected  a  national  committee  to  act  as  the  temporary  govern- 
ment; named  Tito  marshal  of  Yugoslavia  and  prime  minister;  and 
issued  a  declaration  forbidding  King  Petar  to  return  to  the  coun- 
try until  a  popular  referendum  had  been  held  on  the  status  of  the 
monarchy.  Tito  did  not  notify  Stalin  of  the  November  meeting, 
which  enraged  the  Soviet  leader.  The  Western  Allies,  however,  were 
not  alarmed  because  they  believed  that  the  Partisans  were  the  only 
Yugoslav  resistance  group  actively  fighting  the  Germans.  At  Te- 
heran in  December  1943,  Roosevelt,  Churchill,  and  Stalin  decid- 
ed to  support  the  Partisans.  A  month  later,  Britain  stopped 
supplying  the  Cetnici  and  threw  full  support  to  the  Partisans.  The 
first  Soviet  mission  arrived  at  Partisan  headquarters  shortly  there- 
after. The  United  States  kept  a  military  mission  with  Mihajlovic 
to  encourage  continued  Cetnik  aid  for  downed  American  fliers. 

In  May  1944,  German  airborne  forces  attacked  Tito's  headquar- 
ters in  Drvar,  nearly  capturing  him.  Tito  fled  to  Italy  and  then 
established  new  headquarters  on  the  Adriatic  island  of  Vis.  After 
throwing  full  support  to  the  Partisans,  Britain  worked  to  reconcile 
Tito  and  Petar.  In  June  1944,  at  Britain's  urging,  Petar  named 


41 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Ivan  Subasic,  former  ban  of  Croatia,  as  prime  minister  of  the 
government-in-exile.  Subasic  accepted  the  resolutions  of  the  second 
AVNOJ  conference,  and  Petar  agreed  to  remain  outside  Yugosla- 
via. In  September  the  king  succumbed  to  British  pressure  and  sum- 
moned all  Yugoslavs  to  back  the  Partisans. 

When  the  Red  Army  reached  the  Yugoslav-Romanian  border 
in  September  1944,  Tito  traveled  secretly  to  Moscow,  arranged 
for  Soviet  troops  to  enter  Yugoslavia,  and  secured  Stalin's  word 
that  the  Red  Army  would  leave  the  country  once  it  was  secure, 
without  interfering  in  domestic  politics.  Soviet  troops  crossed  the 
border  on  October  1 ,  and  a  joint  Partisan-Soviet  force  liberated 
Belgrade  on  October  20.  The  majority  of  the  Red  Army  then  con- 
tinued into  Hungary,  leaving  the  Partisans  and  the  Western  Al- 
lies to  crush  remaining  Germans,  Ustase,  and  Cetnici.  When  the 
Partisans  advanced  into  Croatia  in  the  bloodiest  fighting  of  the  war, 
Ustase  leaders  and  collaborators  fled  to  Austria  with  regular  Croa- 
tian and  Slovenian  troops  and  some  Cetnici.  The  Partisans  finally 
occupied  Trieste,  Istria,  and  some  Slovenian  enclaves  in  Austria, 
but  they  withdrew  from  some  of  these  areas  after  the  Allies  per- 
suaded Tito  to  let  the  postwar  peace  conferences  setde  borders. 
The  Partisans  crushed  a  small  Albanian  nationalist  revolt  in  Kosovo 
after  Tito  and  Albanian  communist  leader  Enver  Hoxha  announced 
that  they  would  return  Kosovo  to  Yugoslavia. 

World  War  II  claimed  1.7  million  Yugoslav  lives,  11  percent 
of  the  prewar  population— a  mortality  second  only  to  that  of  Poland. 
About  1  million  of  those  were  killed  by  other  Yugoslavs.  The  aver- 
age age  of  the  dead  was  twenty- two  years.  The  country's  major 
cities,  production  centers,  and  communications  systems  were  in 
ruins,  and  starvation  was  widespread  (see  World  War  II  and  Recov- 
ery, ch.  3). 

Postwar  Yugoslavia 

Communist  Takeover  and  Consolidation 

The  communists  under  Tito  emerged  from  the  war  as  sole  rul- 
ers of  Yugoslavia,  without  major  Soviet  assistance.  King  Petar  sur- 
rendered his  powers  to  a  three-member  regency  in  late  1944,  and 
under  Allied  pressure  Tito  and  Subasic  agreed  to  merge  their 
governments.  On  March  7,  1945,  a  single  provisional  Yugoslav 
government  took  office  with  Tito  as  prime  minister  and  war 
minister,  Subasic  in  charge  of  foreign  affairs,  and  Tito  supporters 
occupying  almost  all  cabinet  posts.  A  communist-dominated  Provi- 
sional Assembly  convened  in  August,  and  the  government  held  elec- 
tions to  choose  a  constituent  assembly  in  November.  New  election 


42 


World  War  II  concentration  camp  near  Nis,  Serbia 
Courtesy  Sam  and  Sarah  Stulberg 

laws  barred  alleged  wartime  collaborators  from  voting,  and  all  can- 
didates had  to  be  nominated  by  the  communist-controlled  People's 
Front,  the  descendant  of  the  wartime  People's  Liberation  Front 
that  encompassed  all  noncollaborationist  political  parties  and  or- 
ganizations. The  police  harassed  noncommunist  politicians  and  sup- 
pressed their  newspapers  during  the  election  campaign.  Subasic 
and  other  noncommunist  ministers  resigned  in  protest,  while  Ser- 
bia's Radical  Party,  Croatia's  Peasant  Party,  and  other  parties  boy- 
cotted the  election.  People's  Front  candidates  won  90  percent  of 
the  vote. 

The  newly  elected  constituent  assembly  dissolved  the  monarchy 
and  established  the  Socialist  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia  on 
November  29,  1945.  Two  months  later,  it  adopted  a  Soviet-style 
constitution  that  provided  for  a  federation  of  six  republics  under 
a  strong  central  government.  In  an  effort  to  prevent  Serbian  domi- 
nation of  the  new  state,  the  regime  made  separate  republics  of  Mon- 
tenegro and  Macedonia  and  created  within  Serbia  itself  the 
ethnically  mixed  Autonomous  Province  of  Vojvodina  and  the  mosdy 
Albanian  Autonomous  Province  of  Kosovo.  At  a  later  date,  the 
regime  further  divided  Serbian  territory  by  recognizing  three  "na- 
tions" (see  Glossary),  the  Serbs,  Croats,  and  Muslim  Slavs,  in  an 
attempt  to  overcome  competing  Serbian  and  Croatian  claims 


43 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

to  that  republic.  The  constitution  established  a  rubber-stamp  Fed- 
eral Assembly  and  a  presidential  council  to  administer  the  federal 
government.  It  also  included  restricted  wording  on  the  inviolabil- 
ity of  the  home,  the  right  to  work,  and  freedom  of  speech,  associa- 
tion, and  religion,  among  other  rights.  Tito  headed  the  party, 
government,  and  armed  forces;  his  party  functionaries  oversaw  the 
industries  and  supervised  republic  and  local  officials. 

Tito's  government  repaired  wartime  damage,  instituted  land 
reform,  and  established  a  Soviet-style  economic  system.  United 
Nations  deliveries  of  supplies  prevented  starvation  and  the  spread 
of  disease  but  did  not  solve  the  fundamental  problem  of  rural 
poverty.  In  August  1945,  the  regime  seized  remaining  large  and 
medium-size  landholdings  along  with  property  belonging  to  banks, 
churches,  monasteries,  absentee  landlords,  private  companies,  and 
the  expelled  German  minority.  It  gave  half  the  land  to  peasants  and 
allocated  the  rest  to  state-owned  enterprises.  The  authorities  post- 
poned forced  collectivization  but  required  peasants  to  sell  any  sur- 
plus to  the  state  at  below-market  prices.  Peasants  received  incentives 
to  join  newly  founded  state  and  cooperative  farms.  The  CPY  quickly 
implemented  the  Stalinist  model  for  rapid  industrial  development; 
by  1948  it  had  nationalized  virtually  all  the  country's  wealth  ex- 
cept privately  held  land.  State  planners  set  wages  and  prices  and 
compiled  a  grandiose  five-year  plan  that  emphasized  exploitation 
of  domestic  raw  materials,  development  of  heavy  industry,  and  eco- 
nomic growth  in  underdeveloped  regions.  The  Yugoslavs  relied 
on  tax  and  price  policies,  reparations,  Soviet  credits,  and  export 
of  foodstuffs,  timber,  minerals,  and  metals  to  generate  capital.  They 
redirected  the  bulk  of  their  trade  toward  the  Soviet  Union  and 
Eastern  Europe  (see  Application  of  Stalinist  Economics,  ch.  3). 

Between  1945  and  1948,  the  government  punished  wartime  col- 
laborators. British  forces  in  Austria  captured  Ustase  members  and 
Croatian  and  Slovenian  collaborators  along  with  innocent  refugees. 
These  were  returned  to  Yugoslavia,  where  Partisans  summarily 
executed  thousands  of  innocent  and  guilty  prisoners.  The  regime 
also  imprisoned  thousands  of  Cetnici  and  executed  Mihajlovic  and 
other  Cetnik  leaders  as  collaborators  after  a  show  trial  in  1946. 

The  communists  often  used  collaboration  charges  to  stifle  po- 
litical and  religious  opposition,  as  well  as  economic  and  social  in- 
itiatives. The  Roman  Catholic  Church  bitterly  opposed  the  new 
order.  After  the  war,  the  authorities  executed  over  200  priests  and 
nuns  charged  with  participating  in  Ustase  atrocities.  Archbishop 
Stepinac  protested  government  excesses  and  the  secularization  of 
education,  institution  of  civil  marriage,  and  confiscation  of  church 


44 


Historical  Setting 


lands.  In  September  1946,  the  regime  sentenced  him  to  imprison- 
ment for  sixteen  years  for  complicity  with  the  Pavelic  government. 
He  served  five  years  before  the  regime  released  him.  Yugoslav- 
Vatican  relations  deteriorated  during  the  imprisonment  of  Stepinac, 
and  the  government  severed  them  in  1952  when  Pope  Pius  XII 
named  Stepinac  a  cardinal.  The  authorities  permitted  the  funeral 
and  burial  of  Stepinac  in  Zagreb  in  1960,  after  which  Yugoslav- 
Vatican  relations  gradually  improved  until  diplomatic  relations  were 
reestablished  in  1970. 

The  Yugoslav-Soviet  Rift 

Fearing  that  Soviet  control  of  Eastern  Europe  was  slipping,  Stalin 
ceased  advocating  "national  roads  to  socialism"  in  1947  and  or- 
dered creation  of  a  Soviet-dominated  socialist  alliance.  In  September 
the  Soviet,  East  European,  Italian,  and  French  communist  par- 
ties founded  the  Cominform  (Communist  Information  Bureau — 
see  Glossary),  a  successor  to  the  prewar  Comintern  (Communist 
International)  that  Stalin  had  hoped  to  manipulate  for  the  benefit 
of  the  Soviet  Union. 

Establishment  of  Cominform  headquarters  in  Belgrade  strength- 
ened the  image  that  Yugoslavia  was  the  staunchest  Soviet  ally  in 
Eastern  Europe.  Stalin,  however,  saw  Yugoslavia's  independent 
communists  as  a  threat  to  his  hold  on  Eastern  Europe,  and  hidden 
resentment  strained  relations  between  the  Yugoslav  and  Soviet  lead- 
ers. Resentment  had  grown  on  the  Yugoslav  side  during  the  war 
because  of  Stalin's  objections  to  the  Partisans'  political  initiatives, 
his  refusal  to  provide  the  Partisans  military  aid  early  in  the  strug- 
gle, and  his  wartime  agreements  with  Churchill  and  Roosevelt.  Af- 
ter the  war,  Yugoslav  leaders  complained  about  Red  Army  looting 
and  raping  in  Yugoslavia  during  1944  and  1945  and  about  unfair 
trade  arrangements.  The  Yugoslavs  also  resisted  establishment  of 
joint  companies  that  would  have  allowed  Moscow  to  dominate  their 
economy. 

In  early  1948,  the  Soviet  Union  stalled  negotiations  on  a 
Yugoslav-Soviet  trade  treaty  and  began  claiming  that  the  Red  Army 
had  liberated  Yugoslavia  and  facilitated  the  Partisan  victory.  In 
March  the  Soviet  Union  withdrew  its  military  and  civilian  advisers 
from  Yugoslavia,  charging  the  Yugoslavs  with  perversion  of  Stalinist 
dogma.  The  Yugoslavs  rejected  the  charges,  criticized  the  Soviet 
Union  for  recruiting  spies  within  the  Yugoslav  party,  military, 
police,  and  enterprises,  and  defiantly  asserted  that  a  communist 
could  love  his  native  land  no  less  than  the  Soviet  Union.  This  in- 
subordination infuriated  Stalin,  and  Yugoslav- Soviet  exchanges 
grew  more  heated.  Finally,  at  a  special  session  in  Bucharest  that  the 


45 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Yugoslavs  refused  to  attend,  the  Cominform  shocked  the  world  by 
expelling  Yugoslavia  and  calling  upon  Yugoslav  communists  to 
overthrow  Tito. 

At  first  the  CPY  responded  to  the  Cominform  measures  with 
conciliatory  overtures.  Portraits  of  Stalin,  Marx,  Engels,  and  Tito 
hung  side  by  side  at  the  Fifth  Party  Congress  in  July  1948,  and 
the  delegates  chanted  pledges  of  support  for  Stalin  and  the  Soviet 
Union.  In  a  lengthy  address,  Tito  refuted  Soviet  charges  against 
Yugoslavia,  but  he  refrained  from  attacking  Stalin.  The  vast  majori- 
ty of  Yugoslavs  supported  Tito.  The  press  publicized  Soviet  attacks 
widely;  Moscow  appealed  for  loyalty,  but  its  appeals  were  nulli- 
fied by  renewed  claims  that  the  Red  Army  had  liberated  Yugosla- 
via from  fascism.  A  few  prominent  Yugoslav  communists  did  defect, 
and  for  five  years  after  1948  the  regime  imprisoned  thousands  of 
suspected  pro-Soviet  communists. 

The  Yugoslav  regime  strove  to  prove  its  allegiance  to  Stalin  af- 
ter 1948.  It  answered  Moscow's  criticisms  by  supporting  Soviet 
foreign  policy  and  implementing  additional  Stalinist  economic  mea- 
sures. In  1949  the  Yugoslav  government  began  collectivizing 
agriculture;  over  the  next  two  years,  it  used  a  carrot-and-stick  ap- 
proach to  induce  2  million  peasants  to  join  about  6,900  collective 
farms.  The  campaign,  however,  caused  a  decrease  in  agricultural 
output,  and  the  use  of  coercion  eroded  peasant  support  for  the 
government.  Peasant  resistance  and  a  1950  drought  that  threatened 
the  cities  with  starvation  soon  stalled  the  collectivization  drive.  The 
government  announced  the  program's  cancellation  in  1952. 

In  1949  Yugoslavia  stood  isolated.  Relations  with  the  West  wors- 
ened because  of  the  bitter  dispute  with  Italy  over  Trieste,  the  re- 
gime's refusal  to  compensate  foreigners  for  nationalized  property, 
continued  Yugoslav  support  for  the  communists  in  Greece,  and 
other  issues.  The  Soviet  alliance  launched  an  economic  blockade 
against  Yugoslavia,  excluding  it  from  the  Council  for  Mutual  Eco- 
nomic Assistance  (Comecon — see  Glossary).  The  Soviet  Union 
propagandized  harshly  against  "Judas"  Tito  in  Serbo-Croatian 
broadcasts,  attempted  to  subvert  CPY  organizations,  and  sought 
to  incite  unrest  among  the  Hungarian,  Albanian,  and  Russian 
minorities  in  Yugoslavia. 

Troop  movements  and  border  incidents  convinced  Yugoslav  lead- 
ers that  a  Soviet-led  invasion  was  imminent,  requiring  fundamen- 
tal changes  in  foreign  policy.  In  July  1949,  Tito  closed  the 
Yugoslav-Greek  border  and  ceased  supplying  the  pro-Cominform 
Greek  communists,  and  in  August  Yugoslav  votes  in  the  United 
Nations  began  to  stray  from  the  Soviet  line.  Welcoming  the 
Yugoslav-Soviet  rift,  the  West  commenced  a  flow  of  economic  aid 


46 


Historical  Setting 


in  1949,  saved  the  country  from  hunger  in  1950,  and  covered  much 
of  Yugoslavia's  trade  deficit  for  the  next  decade.  The  United  States 
began  shipping  weapons  to  Yugoslavia  in  1951 .  A  military  securi- 
ty arrangement  was  concluded  in  1953,  but  the  Western  powers 
were  unable  to  bring  Yugoslavia  into  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty 
Organization  (NATO).  Italy  won  control  of  Trieste  in  1954. 

Introduction  of  Socialist  Self-Management 

Faced  with  economic  stagnation,  a  Soviet-led  trade  embargo, 
dwindling  popularity,  and  a  dysfunctional  Soviet-style  economic 
system,  Yugoslav  leaders  returned  to  the  core  of  their  philosophy, 
the  writings  of  Marx.  Their  aim  was  to  reassess  their  ideology  and 
lay  the  groundwork  for  a  new  economic  mechanism  called  socialist 
(or  workers')  self-management.  Enterprises  formed  prototype  work- 
ers' councils  in  1949,  and  the  Federal  Assembly  passed  laws  in  1950 
and  1951  to  implement  the  system  fully.  These  laws  replaced  state 
ownership  of  the  means  of  production  with  social  ownership,  en- 
trusting management  responsibilities  to  the  workers  of  each  enter- 
prise. The  laws  empowered  enterprise  workers'  councils  to  set  broad 
production  goals  and  supervise  finances,  but  government-ap- 
pointed directors  retained  veto  power  over  council  decisions.  The  gov- 
ernment also  reformed  economic  planning  and  freed  some  prices 
to  fluctuate  according  to  supply  and  demand,  but  foreign  trade  re- 
mained under  central  control  (see  Socialist  Self-Management,  ch.  3). 

The  replacement  of  a  command  economy  with  a  self-management 
system  required  the  CPY  to  loosen  its  hold  on  decision  making. 
At  its  Sixth  Party  Congress,  in  November  1952,  the  party  renamed 
itself  the  League  of  Communists  of  Yugoslavia  (LCY — see  Glos- 
sary) to  signal  a  break  with  its  Stalinist  past  and  a  revision  of  its 
leading  role  in  the  country's  political  life.  The  congress  declared 
that  the  party  would  separate  itself  structurally  from  the  state.  In- 
stead of  directing  government  and  economic  activity,  the  party  was 
to  influence  democratic  decision  making  through  education, 
propaganda,  and  the  participation  of  individual  communists  in  po- 
litical institutions,  workers'  councils,  and  other  organizations.  Free 
intraparty  debate  would  determine  party  policy,  but  once  the  party 
had  made  a  final  decision,  the  principle  of  democratic  centralism 
would  bind  all  members  to  support  it.  By  rejecting  multiparty 
pluralism,  the  party  retained  a  monopoly  on  political  organization. 
Three  months  after  the  congress,  the  People's  Front  became  the 
Socialist  Alliance  of  Working  People  of  Yugoslavia  (SAWPY),  an 
umbrella  organization  through  which  the  party  would  maintain  this 
monopoly.  In  addition,  individual  communists  continued  to  oc- 
cupy key  government  and  enterprise-management  posts. 


47 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

In  1953  the  Federal  Assembly  amended  virtually  the  entire  1946 
constitution  to  conform  with  the  new  laws  on  socialist  self- 
management.  On  the  federal  level,  the  amendments  created  an 
administrative  Federal  Executive  Council  and  reorganized  the  Fed- 
eral Assembly.  The  amendments  also  reduced  the  already  minimal 
autonomy  of  the  individual  republics,  while  local  government  re- 
tained power  in  economic  and  social  matters. 

In  March  1953,  the  government  began  dissolving  collective  and 
state  farms.  Two- thirds  of  the  peasants  abandoned  the  collectives 
within  nine  months,  and  the  socialist  share  of  landownership  sank 
from  25  percent  to  9  percent  within  three  years.  In  an  attempt  to 
mitigate  the  problem  of  peasant  landlessness,  the  government 
reduced  the  legal  limit  on  individual  holdings  from  twenty-five  or 
thirty-five  hectares  of  cultivable  land  to  ten  hectares;  this  restric- 
tion would  remain  on  the  books  for  over  three  decades  and  would 
prevent  the  development  of  economically  efficient  family  farms. 
The  government  also  eliminated  the  system  of  compulsory  deliv- 
eries, fixed  taxes  in  advance,  encouraged  peasants  to  join  purchasing 
and  marketing  cooperatives,  and  increased  investment  in  the 
agricultural  sector.  As  a  result,  Yugoslav  agricultural  output  grew 
steadily  through  the  1950s,  and  its  farms  had  record  harvests  in 
1958  and  1959.  Yugoslavia  maintained  its  focus  on  industrial  de- 
velopment through  the  1950s,  despite  the  government's  new  ap- 
proach to  economic  planning  and  enterprise  management.  The 
industrial  sector  boomed  after  1953;  manufacturing  exports  more 
than  doubled  between  1954  and  1960;  and  the  country  showed  the 
world's  second  highest  economic  growth  rate  between  1957  and 
1960. 

Living  conditions,  health  care,  education,  and  cultural  life  im- 
proved in  the  wake  of  the  economic  and  political  reforms.  In  the 
mid-1950s,  the  government  redirected  investment  toward  produc- 
tion of  consumer  goods,  and  foreign  products  became  widely  avail- 
able. The  regime  also  relaxed  its  religious  restrictions,  allowed  for 
a  degree  of  public  criticism,  curbed  abuse  of  privileges  by  par- 
ty officials,  and  reduced  the  powers  of  the  secret  police.  Travel 
restrictions  eased;  Yugoslavs  gained  greater  access  to  Western  liter- 
ature and  ideas;  artists  abandoned  "socialist  realism"  to  experi- 
ment with  abstractionism  and  other  styles;  and  film  makers  and 
writers,  including  Nobel  Prize-winner  Ivo  Andric,  produced  first- 
rate  works.  But  already  in  1953,  liberalization  was  an  uneven, 
changeable  phenomenon  in  Yugoslavia.  A  meeting  of  party  leaders 
at  the  north  Adriatic  island  of  Brioni  that  year  resolved  to  strengthen 
party  discipline,  amid  growing  concern  that  apathy  had  infected 
the  rank  and  file  since  the  Sixth  Party  Congress.  Over  the  next 


48 


Historical  Setting 


several  years,  the  party  tightened  democratic  centralism;  established 
basic  party  organizations  in  factories,  universities,  and  other  in- 
stitutions; purged  its  rolls  of  inactive  members;  and  took  other  meas- 
ures to  enhance  discipline. 

Milovan  Djilas,  one  of  Tito's  closest  confidants,  disagreed  with 
the  Brioni  decisions.  In  a  number  of  articles  in  the  foreign  press, 
he  criticized  the  party  leadership  for  stifling  democratic  intraparty 
debate.  He  also  exposed  elitism  in  the  private  lives  of  leaders  and 
suggested  that  the  LCY  dissolve  itself  as  a  rigid  political  party.  This 
criticism  exceeded  Tito's  tolerance,  and  his  former  comrades  dis- 
missed Djilas  from  his  posts  and  imprisoned  him.  In  1957  Djilas 
published  The  New  Class,  in  which  he  described  the  emergence  of 
a  new  communist  ruling  elite  that  enjoyed  all  the  privileges  of  the 
old  bourgeoisie.  The  book  won  him  international  notoriety  and 
prolonged  his  jail  term.  Publication  of  Conversations  with  Stalin  in 
1962  earned  him  more  fame  and  a  second  prison  term  (see  Djilas, 
Praxis,  and  Intellectual  Repression,  ch.  4). 

Nonalignment  and  Yugoslav-Soviet  Rapprochement 

Yugoslav- Soviet  relations  showed  signs  of  new  life  soon  after  Sta- 
lin died  in  March  1953.  In  an  unprecedented  gesture,  Nikita  S. 
Khrushchev,  first  secretary  of  the  Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet 
Union  (CPSU),  visited  Tito  in  Belgrade  in  1955.  Khrushchev  ex- 
pressed the  regrets  of  the  CPSU  for  the  rift,  although  he  did  not 
blame  it  on  Stalin  directly.  Tito  rejected  this  explanation,  and  af- 
ter formal  discussions  the  Yugoslav  and  Soviet  leaders  decided  to 
resume  only  state  relations.  In  the  final  communique  of  the  meet- 
ing, known  as  the  Belgrade  Declaration,  the  Soviet  Union  ac- 
knowledged the  right  of  individual  socialist  countries  to  follow  their 
own  path  toward  socialism. 

The  LCY  and  CPSU  restored  relations  in  1956,  and  at  the 
CPSU's  Twentieth  Party  Congress,  Khrushchev  blasted  Stalin  for 
his  "shameful  role"  in  the  Yugoslav-Soviet  estrangement.  After 
a  visit  to  the  Soviet  Union  in  June  that  deepened  the  rapproche- 
ment, Tito  entertained  hopes  that  all  of  Eastern  Europe  would  adopt 
some  version  of  Yugoslavia's  model  for  socialist  development. 
Movement  toward  liberalization  in  the  Soviet  alliance,  however, 
ground  to  a  halt  with  the  1956  Hungarian  Revolution  and  the  Soviet 
invasion  that  crushed  it.  Yugoslav-Hungarian  relations  cooled  af- 
ter the  execution  of  Imre  Nagy,  the  Hungarian  revolutionary  leader 
who  had  taken  asylum  in  the  Yugoslav  embassy  in  Budapest. 
Yugoslav-Soviet  relations  were  unstable  in  the  years  following  the 
Hungarian  invasion,  but  by  1961  they  had  entered  a  period  of 
detente. 


49 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Nonalignment  became  the  keystone  of  Yugoslavia's  foreign  policy 
in  the  1950s.  While  isolated  from  the  superpowers,  Yugoslavia 
strove  to  forge  strong  ties  with  Third  World  countries  similarly  in- 
terested in  avoiding  an  alliance  with  East  or  West  and  the  hard 
choice  between  communism  and  capitalism.  Tito  found  common 
ground  with  Egypt's  President  Gamal  Abdul  Nasser  and  India's 
Prime  Minister  Jawaharlal  Nehru,  and  they  worked  together  to 
organize  a  movement  of  Third  World  nations  whose  collective  state- 
ments on  international  issues  would  carry  greater  weight  than  their 
individual  voices.  In  1961  Belgrade  hosted  the  first  major  confer- 
ence of  the  world's  nonaligned  nations.  Tito  used  the  prestige  gained 
from  the  meeting  and  from  his  denunciations  of  neocolonialism 
to  enhance  the  leverage  gained  by  positioning  Yugoslavia  between 
East  and  West. 

Reforms  of  the  1960s 

Initial  steps  toward  market  socialism  (see  Glossary)  and  freer 
foreign  trade  in  1961  produced  unacceptable  inflation  and  a  foreign- 
trade  deficit,  and  emergency  anti-inflation  measures  plunged  Yu- 
goslavia into  recession  in  1962.  The  recession  produced  an  urgent 
debate  on  fundamental  economic  reforms,  especially  decentrali- 
zation of  investment  decision  making.  During  the  debate,  natur- 
ally conflicting  interregional  economic  interests  rekindled  ethnic 
rivalries,  and  emotional  nationalist  claims  reemerged  to  compli- 
cate economic  discussions.  Party  leaders  were  unable  to  solve  the 
widening  economic  gap  between  the  country's  more  prosperous 
northern  republics  and  the  underdeveloped  southern  regions. 
Resentment  grew  from  suspicions  that  some  republics  were  receiv- 
ing an  unfair  share  of  investment  funds. 

The  government  adopted  stopgap  recentralization  measures  to 
end  the  recession  in  1962,  but  inflation  and  the  foreign-trade  deficit 
again  rose  sharply,  renewing  debate  on  economic  reforms.  Led  by 
Eduard  Kardelj  and  Vladimir  Bakaric,  party  liberals  (mostly  from 
Slovenia,  Croatia,  and  the  Belgrade  area)  promoted  decentraliza- 
tion measures  and  investment  strategies  that  would  benefit  the 
wealthier  republics.  Conservatives  (mostly  from  Serbia  and  Mon- 
tenegro) supported  maintaining  or  stiffening  central  controls  and 
continuing  investment  in  the  less  developed  regions  (see  Overhaul 
in  the  1960s,  ch.  3). 

In  1963  Yugoslavia  established  new  constitutions  at  the  nation- 
al and  republic  level,  expanding  the  concept  of  self-management 
beyond  the  economic  sphere  into  social  activity.  This  was  achieved 
by  creating  local  councils  for  education  and  culture,  social  welfare, 
public  health,  and  political  administration.  The  composition  of  the 


50 


President  Tito  with  Nehru  of  India  and  Nasser  of  Egypt,  at  meeting 
of  Nonaligned  Movement  leaders,  Brioni,  1956 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Yugoslavia,  Washington 

Federal  Assembly  was  altered,  simultaneous  officeholding  in  the 
party  and  government  was  outlawed  (except  for  Tito),  and  govern- 
ment tenure  was  limited  and  dispersed  by  the  introduction  of  a 
regular  rotation  system  (see  The  1963  Constitution,  ch.  4). 

In  the  mid-1960s,  the  parliamentary  institutions  became  more 
active,  as  Federal  Assembly  members  criticized  cabinet  secretar- 
ies and  amended  bills  and  as  liberal  reformers  used  the  assembly 
to  advance  their  ideas.  Between  1964  and  1967,  the  assembly 
reduced  the  role  of  the  state  in  economic  management  and  created 
the  legislative  foundation  of  market  socialism.  Reform  also  included 
external  trade  measures:  Yugoslavia  devalued  its  currency,  obtained 
foreign  loans,  and  joined  the  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and 
Trade  (GATT — see  Glossary). 

The  period  immediately  following  this  set  of  reforms  brought 
stagnation,  rising  unemployment,  unpopular  price  increases,  illi- 
quidity,  increases  in  income  disparity,  and  calls  for  new  reforms. 
Leaders  in  Serbia,  Montenegro,  Macedonia,  and  elsewhere  scram- 
bled to  stave  off  efforts  to  close  unprofitable  enterprises  in  their 
areas.  Slovenes  and  Croats  came  to  resent  requirements  for  heavy 
investment  in  less  developed  republics  at  the  expense  of  their  own 
modernization.  Yugoslav  workers  themselves  eased  unemployment 


51 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

by  finding  guest  worker  jobs  in  Western  Europe  (see  Structure  of 
the  Economy,  ch.  3).  Foreign  tourists  and  workers  returning  from 
abroad  brought  Yugoslavia  much-needed  foreign  currency.  A  1967 
law  allowed  foreigners  to  invest  up  to  49  percent  in  partnerships 
with  Yugoslav  firms  and  repatriate  their  profits,  and  in  1970  Yu- 
goslavia signed  a  long-sought  commercial  agreement  with  the  Euro- 
pean Economic  Community  (EEC — see  Glossary).  The  postreform 
recession  ended  in  1969  as  unemployment  dropped  and  incomes 
and  living  standards  rose,  but  inflation  again  gained  momentum, 
and  many  enterprises  remained  unprofitable  (see  The  Economic 
Reform  of  1965,  ch.  3). 

Certain  that  the  reforms  would  undermine  party  control  and 
threaten  Yugoslavia's  survival,  pro-centralist  party  leaders  and  mid- 
level  bureaucrats  attempted  to  obstruct  their  implementation.  Again 
the  centers  of  this  movement  were  Serbia  and  Montenegro.  The 
key  opponent  of  reform  was  the  hard-line  Serbian  vice  president 
of  Yugoslavia,  Aleksandar  Rankovic,  who  also  directed  party  cadres 
and  the  secret  police.  In  1966  the  army  intelligence  unit,  composed 
mostly  of  Croats,  examined  complaints  that  the  secret  police  was 
mistreating  Albanians  in  Kosovo.  The  investigation  uncovered  a 
wide  range  of  unethical  practices,  including  smuggling  and  sur- 
veillance of  Tito  himself.  Tito  purged  the  secret  police,  and  Rankov- 
ic was  forced  to  resign  (see  Internal  Security,  ch.  5).  But  he 
remained  the  champion  of  Serbian  nationalist  groups,  particular- 
ly on  the  issue  of  Kosovo. 

After  the  defeat  of  the  conservatives  and  adoption  of  additional 
party  reforms,  the  party  central  organization  lost  its  predominant 
position.  Republic  and  province  party  leaders  blocked  action  taken 
in  Belgrade  and  gained  control  of  party  appointments,  thus  shift- 
ing the  focus  of  party  loyalty  away  from  the  center.  New  election 
laws  brought  direct  multicandidate  elections,  often  won  by  candi- 
dates who  lacked  party  approval. 

Party  discipline  softened  when  the  ascendant  liberals  continued 
to  argue  that  the  LCY  should  influence  rather  than  direct  self- 
management  decision  making.  The  press  and  universities  grew  into 
centers  of  debate  on  an  expanding  list  of  taboo  issues.  Beginning 
in  1968,  a  group  of  intellectuals  in  Zagreb  and  Belgrade,  known 
collectively  as  the  Praxis  circle,  circulated  unorthodox  interpreta- 
tions of  Marx,  supported  student  demonstrations,  and  criticized 
the  rigidity  of  party  positions.  Despite  official  efforts  to  suppress 
it,  the  Praxis  circle  flourished  and  spoke  out  until  1975. 

In  1968  attention  moved  back  to  foreign  policy.  Student  unrest 
subsided,  and  Yugoslav-Soviet  relations  again  sagged  after  War- 
saw Pact  nations  invaded  Czechoslovakia  in  August  1968.  Tito, 


52 


Historical  Setting 


who  had  traveled  to  Prague  before  the  invasion  to  lend  support 
to  Alexander  Dubcek's  program  of  "socialism  with  a  human  face, ' ' 
denounced  the  invasion,  and  Moscow  and  Belgrade  exchanged  bit- 
ter criticism.  The  Yugoslavs  warned  that  they  would  resist  a  Soviet 
invasion  of  their  country,  and  Tito  established  a  civil  defense  or- 
ganization capable  of  mobilizing  the  entire  country  in  such  an  event 
(see  National  Defense,  ch.  5). 

The  quiet  that  the  invasion  of  Czechoslovakia  brought  to  the 
Yugoslav  domestic  scene  was  broken  in  November  1968  when  ethnic 
Albanians  in  Kosovo  and  western  Macedonia  staged  violent  demon- 
strations to  demand  equality  and  republic  status  for  Kosovo. 
Demonstrations  and  violent  incidents  continued  through  1969. 
Among  broad  government  concessions  to  the  ethnic  Albanians,  a 
1968  constitutional  amendment  allowed  local  economic  and  social 
planning  and  financial  control  in  Kosovo.  Serbian  and  Montene- 
grin intellectuals  condemned  the  upgrading  of  Kosovo's  status  and 
accurately  predicted  that  Albanian  abuses  would  increase  Serbian 
emigration  from  Kosovo.  The  creation  of  the  separate  Macedoni- 
an Orthodox  Church  and  rising  Muslim  nationalism  in  Bosnia  also 
irritated  Serbian  churchmen  and  intellectuals  during  this  period. 

After  tough  political  bargaining,  the  Federal  Assembly  adopted 
constitutional  amendments  in  1971  that  transformed  Yugoslavia 
into  a  loose  federation.  The  amendments  limited  federal  govern- 
ment responsibilities  to  defense,  foreign  affairs,  maintenance  of  a 
unified  Yugoslav  market,  common  monetary  and  foreign- trade  poli- 
cies, the  self-management  system,  and  ethnic  and  civil  rights.  The 
republics  and  provinces  gained  primary  control  over  all  other  func- 
tions and  a  de  facto  veto  power  over  federal  decisions. 

Unrest  in  Croatia  and  Its  Consequences  in  the  1970s 

Political,  economic,  and  cultural  tensions  in  the  late  1960s  sharply 
increased  nationalist  feeling  in  Croatia.  In  1967  Croatian  intellec- 
tuals, including  Miroslav  Krleza,  the  most  respected  literary  figure 
in  Croatia,  signed  a  statement  denying  the  validity  of  Serbo- 
Croatian  as  a  historical  language  and  promoting  Croatian  as  a  dis- 
tinct language.  The  ensuing  polemics  escalated  into  a  conflict  over 
discrimination.  Croatian  historians  recalled  exploitation  of  Croa- 
tia by  the  Serb-dominated  prewar  government,  and  Croatian 
economists  complained  of  disproportionate  levies  on  Croatia  for 
the  federal  budget  and  development  fund.  Party  leaders  in  Zagreb 
won  popularity  by  defending  the  economic  interests  of  the  repub- 
lic, and  nationalist  leadership  groups,  including  Matica  Hrvatska, 
Croatia's  oldest  cultural  society,  began  calling  for  constitutional 
changes  to  give  the  republic  virtual  independence.  In  November 


53 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

1971 ,  university  students  went  on  strike,  and  demonstrators  marched 
through  the  streets.  Tito  pressed  Croatian  party  leaders  to  quiet  the 
nationalists,  but  the  unrest  continued.  Finally,  police  and  sol- 
diers arrested  hundreds  of  student  leaders.  The  authorities  disbanded 
Matica  Hrvatska  and  purged  "nationalists"  and  liberals  from  all 
Croatian  organizations  and  institutions. 

The  rise  of  nationalism  halted  the  liberal  movement  in  the  na- 
tional party.  Tito  called  for  stricter  adherence  to  democratic  cen- 
tralism and  proclaimed  that  the  LCY  would  remain  the  binding 
political  force  of  Yugoslavia  and  that  the  party  could  not  decentral- 
ize without  endangering  the  country's  integrity.  He  also  called  for 
the  party  to  reassume  its  leading  role  and  reestablish  its  control  over 
the  country's  political  and  economic  life.  Through  1972  Tito  over- 
came unprecedented  local  defiance  to  purge  reformist  party  leaders 
in  Serbia,  Slovenia,  Macedonia,  and  Vojvodina.  He  replaced  them 
in  most  instances  with  antireform  party  veterans  who  had  displayed 
less  political  talent  than  their  predecessors  but  were  considered  more 
reliable  politically.  In  1974  the  Tenth  Party  Congress  elected  Tito 
party  president  for  life  and  proclaimed  that  Yugoslav  ' '  self-managed 
socialism"  would  remain  under  firm  party  control.  The  leadership 
muzzled  the  press,  arrested  dissidents,  pressured  universities  to  fire 
outspoken  professors,  and  redoubled  efforts  to  promote  Tito's  cult 
of  personality. 

The  1974  Constitution 

In  1974  the  government  enacted  a  new  Constitution,  one  of  the 
world's  longest,  which  created  new  representative  bodies  and  a  com- 
plex system  of  checks  and  balances,  designed  to  enhance  party  power 
and  limit  the  influence  of  professional  enterprise  managers.  The  new 
Constitution  replaced  direct  election  of  representatives  to  legislative 
bodies,  substituting  a  complex  system  of  indirect  elections  by 
delegates  representing  associated  labor,  sociopolitical  organizations, 
and  local  citizens  in  general.  The  leadership  heralded  the  new  sys- 
tem as  "direct  workers'  democracy,"  but  the  mechanism  actually 
allowed  the  central  party  leadership  greater  control  of  the  Federal 
Assembly  and  republic  and  local  assemblies.  Despite  recent  nation- 
alist unrest  and  conservative  backlash,  the  Constitution  retained  the 
1971  amendments  that  shifted  power  from  the  federal  government 
to  the  republics. 

In  his  last  years,  Tito  virtually  ignored  worsening  economic  con- 
ditions and  worked  domestically  to  strengthen  collective  leadership 
and  prevent  a  single  individual  or  group  from  accumulating  exces- 
sive power.  In  foreign  affairs,  Cuba  threatened  Yugoslav  leader- 
ship of  the  Nonaligned  Movement  by  pushing  the  movement  toward 


54 


Gathering  of  world  dignitaries  for  President 
Tito's  funeral,  May  1980 
Courtesy  United  Press  International 


55 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

a  pro-Soviet  position  at  the  1979  Conference  of  Nonaligned  Na- 
tions in  Havana.  Tito  condemned  the  Soviet  invasion  of  Af- 
ghanistan that  year.  Despite  the  weakening  of  the  Nonaligned 
Movement  by  the  influence  of  Cuban  dictator  Fidel  Castro,  in  the 
1970s  Yugoslavia  largely  succeeded  in  maintaining  friendly  rela- 
tions with  all  states,  regardless  of  their  political  and  economic  sys- 
tems. Tito  died  on  May  4,  1980,  and  Yugoslavia's  collective 
presidency  assumed  full  control  in  a  smooth  transition.  Most  Yu- 
goslavs genuinely  mourned  the  loss  of  their  longtime  leader,  who 
had  been  their  country's  strongest  unifying  force.  The  presence 
of  forty-nine  international  leaders  at  his  funeral  showed  the  wide 
respect  that  Tito  had  gained  around  the  world. 

In  1980  Yugoslavia  entered  a  new  era  after  the  death  of  the  most 
effective  leader  the  South  Slavic  nation  had  ever  had.  The  history 
of  the  country  had  featured  division  much  more  prominently  than 
unification;  over  the  centuries,  the  constituent  parts  of  the  modern 
Yugoslav  state  had  alternated  between  independence,  federation 
with  other  states,  and  domination  by  larger  powers.  Each  of  the 
republics  of  the  modern  federation  underwent  its  own  historical 
and  cultural  development,  very  often  in  conflict  with  the  territori- 
al or  political  goals  of  its  Slavic  and  non-Slavic  neighbors.  Although 
the  South  Slavic  state  was  a  longtime  dream  of  many,  initial  ef- 
forts to  establish  such  a  state  were  very  problematic.  After  two  dis- 
astrous world  wars,  the  nation  held  together  in  a  relatively  calm 
period  of  development,  but  after  Tito  the  threat  of  economic  and 
political  disharmony  again  appeared. 

*    *  * 

There  is  a  wealth  of  informative,  well- written  English-language 
sources  on  the  history  of  Yugoslavia  and  its  many  peoples.  An  ex- 
cellent short  work  is  Fred  Singleton's  A  Short  History  of  the  Yugoslav 
Peoples.  Black  Lamb  and  Grey  Falcon  by  Rebecca  West  is  a  classic  popu- 
lar history  and  personal  memoir  of  a  tour  through  Yugoslavia  on 
the  eve  of  World  War  II.  Robert  Lee  Wolffs  The  Balkans  in  Our 
Time  describes  the  emergence  of  Yugoslavia  and  the  other  Balkan 
countries  and  their  development  to  the  postwar  period.  An  excel- 
lent study  of  Yugoslav  foreign  policy  of  the  1920s  and  1930s  is 
J.B.  Hoptner's  Yugoslavia  in  Crisis,  1934-1941.  The  works  of  Fran- 
cis Dvornik  on  the  migrations,  conversion,  and  cultural  develop- 
ment of  the  Slavs  devote  considerable  attention  to  the  Slovenes, 
Croats,  Serbs,  and  Bulgars.  Two  excellent  examinations  of  post- 
war Yugoslavia  development  are  Dennison  Rusinow's  The  Yugoslav 


56 


Historical  Setting 

Experiment,  1948-1974  and  Conflict  and  Cohesion  in  Socialist  Yugosla- 
via by  Steven  L.  Burg.  (For  further  information  and  complete  ci- 
tations, see  Bibliography.) 


57 


Chapter  2.  The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Folk  dancers 


THE  MANY  FACETS  of  the  ethnic  lens  through  which  Yugo- 
slavs view  the  universe  have  magnified  the  divisions  in  Yugoslav 
society  and  obscured  its  few  unifying  elements.  The  obvious  cul- 
tural and  economic  contrasts  were  only  the  starting  point  of  differ- 
ences that  existed  on  many  levels.  In  the  alpine  north,  baroque 
Catholic  altars  reflected  Slovenia's  cultural  affinity  with  Austria 
and  Italy,  but  modern  glass-and-steel  skyscrapers  revealed  Slove- 
nia's aspirations  toward  a  role  in  modern  Europe.  In  the  Balkan 
south,  the  ancient  stone  churches  of  Macedonia  reflected  a  rich 
Byzantine  tradition,  while  acute  poverty  and  a  low  literacy  rate 
were  part  of  the  legacy  of  Ottoman  domination  that  had  insulated 
Macedonians  from  the  influences  of  the  Renaissance,  the  Enlight- 
enment, and  the  Industrial  Revolution.  The  forces  of  war  and  ex- 
ternal threat  bound  Slovenia,  Macedonia,  and  the  patchwork  of 
cultures  between  them  into  a  single  country,  but  they  allowed  scant 
opportunity  for  Consideration  of  how  ethnic  differences  could  be 
overcome. 

Despite  the  ethnic  and  cultural  cleavages  that  continued  to  di- 
vide Yugoslavia  in  1990,  the  country  made  great  social  progress 
after  World  War  II.  On  the  eve  of  the  war,  Yugoslavia  was  a  back- 
ward, predominantly  peasant  land  with  a  few  developing  basic  in- 
dustries mostly  located  in  its  northern  regions.  Paved  roads  were 
rare,  schools  few,  and  almost  half  the  people  illiterate.  Infectious 
disease  was  frequent,  infant  mortality  was  very  high,  doctors  were 
few,  and  hygiene,  medical  facilities,  and  child  care  were  poor,  es- 
pecially in  rural  areas.  The  strong  kinship  ties  that  undergirded 
society  were  the  only  social  welfare  system  available  to  most  peo- 
ple. Meanwhile,  rural  overpopulation  fragmented  landholding,  and 
poverty  frayed  the  fabric  of  the  family.  While  educated  citizens  in 
the  northern  cities  might  watch  ancient  Greek  drama  in  theaters, 
many  of  their  compatriots  in  the  southern  mountains  actually  lived 
according  to  Homeric  traditions  of  blood  vengeance:  buying,  sell- 
ing, and  stealing  brides;  practicing  rituals  of  blood  brotherhood; 
and  reciting  epic  poems  to  the  music  of  a  crude  single-string  in- 
strument. 

Before  World  War  II,  Yugoslavia's  small  upper  class  was  com- 
posed of  a  Serb-dominated  bureaucracy  and  military  and  a  few 
professionals,  entrepreneurs,  and  artisans.  Like  the  Habsburg  and 
Ottoman  domination  of  earlier  centuries,  the  Serbian  hegemony 
established  after  World  War  I  frustrated  the  autonomy  of  the 


61 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

country's  other  major  nationalities.  Preoccupation  with  issues  of 
nationalism  prevented  effective  solutions  to  the  country's  grave  so- 
cial problems.  Animosities  among  the  Yugoslav  peoples  exploded 
in  civil  war  after  the  Nazis  occupied  the  country  in  1941.  World 
War  II  claimed  1 . 7  million  Yugoslav  lives  and  inflicted  deep  wounds 
on  all  national  psyches.  Atrocities  were  committed  by  all  sides,  and 
more  than  half  of  Yugoslavia's  war  dead  were  killed  by  other  Yu- 
goslavs. 

After  World  War  II,  Yugoslavia's  communist  government 
promoted  the  slogan  Brotherhood  and  Unity  and  moved  energeti- 
cally to  smooth  over  ethnic  antagonisms.  Josip  Broz  Tito  and  his 
revolutionary  regime  eradicated  wartime  collaborators  along  with 
many  innocents,  ousted  what  remained  of  the  old  Serb-dominated 
elite,  nationalized  private  property,  and  established  a  new  party- 
based  governing  class.  Membership  in  the  wartime  Partisans  (see 
Glossary),  rather  than  competence  or  education,  became  the  key 
to  a  successful  career.  The  new  government,  led  by  a  ruling  circle 
steeped  in  Marxism  and  Leninism,  undertook  radical  steps  to 
modernize  the  country:  first  reconstruction,  then  rapid  industri- 
alization. Modernization  continued  apace  after  the  Yugoslav  com- 
munists ended  their  alliance  with  the  Soviet  Union  in  1948  and 
introduced  socialist  self-management,  a  unique  version  of  social- 
ism. Thousands  of  peasants  migrated  to  urban  areas  in  the  decade 
following  World  War  II .  Patriarchal  extended  families  broke  down 
at  an  accelerated  rate,  and  women  began  to  find  jobs  and  a  new 
identity  outside  the  home.  New  schools  and  hospitals  opened,  and 
universities  began  training  teachers,  doctors,  and  engineers. 

Although  Yugoslavia's  economy  expanded  rapidly,  by  the 
mid-1960s  it  could  not  absorb  the  large  number  of  individuals 
emerging  from  the  education  system.  Tito  opened  the  borders  to 
emigration,  and  within  a  decade  about  a  million  Yugoslavs  had 
left  to  take  jobs  in  Western  Europe.  Massive  capital  redistribution 
from  relatively  rich  northerly  regions  to  the  less-developed  south 
did  not  mitigate  the  huge  differences  in  development  between  them. 
The  economic  downturn  of  the  late  1970s  and  1980s  slowed  the 
entry  of  qualified  individuals  into  the  working  and  managing  classes. 
In  the  1970s,  the  northern  republics  began  to  complain  about  the 
contributions  to  development  in  the  southern  regions  mandated 
by  the  central  government.  An  entrenched  bureaucracy  sabotaged 
economic  and  social  reforms  in  the  1970s  and  1980s,  and  by  the 
late  1980s  economic  and  political  stagnation  had  eroded  many  of 
the  earlier  improvements  in  Yugoslavia's  standard  of  living.  As 
the  concept  of  the  centrally  planned  economy  waned  throughout 
Eastern  Europe,  Yugoslavia  turned  to  the  West,  causing  further 


62 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


tension  between  tradition  and  change.  In  1990  political  victories 
by  noncommunist  parties  in  Slovenia  and  Croatia  promised  a  fresh 
approach  to  old  and  new  social  tensions  and  regional  disparities. 
Such  changes  portended  a  complete  restructuring  of  the  Yugoslav 
federation. 

Geography  and  Population 

Varied  and  often  breathtaking,  Yugoslavia's  landscape  allows 
outside  access  to  the  country  from  virtually  every  direction,  but 
it  seriously  hampers  internal  movement  from  one  region  to  the  next. 
Throughout  history,  Yugoslavia's  topography  has  exposed  the  coun- 
try to  foreign  invaders,  frustrated  internal  commerce  and  political 
cohesion,  and  preserved  the  extraordinarily  complex  ethnic  mosaic 
created  by  successive  invasions  and  migrations.  The  ruggedness 
of  their  terrain  is  one  reason  Yugoslavs  have  often  won  renown 
as  soldiers  but  seldom  as  merchants. 

Topography 

Rugged  mountains  dominate  the  255,804  square  kilometers  of 
Yugoslavia.  Mountains  separate  the  fertile  inland  plain  from  a  nar- 
row, rocky  Adriatic  coasdine.  Yugoslavia's  three  main  mountainous 
regions  occupy  about  60  percent  of  its  territory.  The  Julian  Alps 
of  Slovenia,  an  extension  of  the  Italian  and  Austrian  alps,  include 
Yugoslavia's  highest  peaks.  The  Dinaric  Alps  rise  dramatically 
along  the  entire  1,500-kilometer  Adriatic  coast.  Finally,  spurs  ex- 
tend southward  from  the  Carpathian  and  Balkan  mountains  through 
Serbia  from  the  Danube  River's  Iron  Gate  near  the  Romanian- 
Bulgarian  border,  intersecting  with  the  Dinaric  Alps  in  Macedo- 
nia (see  Drainage  Systems,  this  ch.). 

The  composition  of  Yugoslavia's  mountains  varies.  The  Dinar- 
ic Alps,  like  the  offshore  Adriatic  islands,  are  chiefly  cracked  lime- 
stone strata  that  form  long  valleys  and  contain  topographical  oddities 
such  as  magnificent  caves,  disappearing  rivers,  and  a  freshwater 
lake  (on  the  north  Adriatic  island  of  Cres)  deeper  than  the  Adriat- 
ic seabed.  In  some  areas  east  of  the  coast,  erosion  of  the  limestone 
has  exposed  the  crystalline  rock  outlayers  of  the  Rhodope  Massif, 
which  is  the  primeval  core  of  the  Balkan  Peninsula.  From  Bosnia 
southeastward,  areas  of  crystalline  rock  are  interspersed  with  allu- 
vial sedimentary  rock.  Serbia's  mountains  contain  a  variety  of  rock 
types,  including  volcanic  rock  and  exposed  crystalline  formations. 
Geological  fault  lines  in  southern  Yugoslavia  have  caused  occasional 
earthquakes;  the  most  serious  in  recent  times  killed  over  1 ,000  peo- 
ple at  Skopje  in  1963. 


63 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

North  and  west  of  Belgrade  are  the  Pannonian  Plains,  which 
include  all  of  the  Serbian  province  of  Vojvodina.  These  plains  were 
the  floor  of  a  huge  inland  sea  during  the  Tertiary  period  (65  mil- 
lion to  2.5  million  years  ago).  Here  eons  of  sedimentary  and  wind- 
blown deposits  have  created  layers  of  fertile  soil  that  are  over  160 
meters  deep  in  some  places. 

Yugoslavia  possesses  about  1,500  kilometers  of  convoluted  Adri- 
atic coastline,  not  including  its  many  islands.  From  the  coast,  ac- 
cess inland  is  easiest  through  four  passages.  The  Postojna  Gate, 
used  for  millennia  by  merchants  and  armies  crossing  between  the 
Adriatic  and  Central  Europe,  is  Yugoslavia's  northernmost  pas- 
sage through  the  coastal  mountains.  Farther  south,  the  Neretva 
River  is  a  centuries-old  trading  link  between  the  Adriatic  and  Bos- 
nia. Below  the  Neretva,  the  Gulf  of  Kotor  is  a  spectacular  fjord 
long  considered  a  strategic  port.  Finally,  the  port  of  Bar  connects 
with  the  interior  of  Montenegro  and  Serbia  by  means  of  the 
Belgrade-Bar  Railroad,  giving  Serbia  access  to  the  Adriatic. 

Drainage  Systems 

The  Pannonian  Plains  are  drained  by  the  Danube  and  its  four 
major  tributaries,  the  Drava,  Tisa  (Hungarian  spelling  Tisza), 
Sava,  and  Morava  (see  fig.  6).  The  Danube,  extremely  wide  and 
deep  at  some  points,  varies  greatly  between  high-  and  low- water 
seasons.  The  former  is  from  March  or  April  until  May  or  June, 
the  latter  from  mid-July  to  late  October.  The  Danube  also  drains 
the  interior  highlands.  The  Vardar  River  and  its  tributaries  drain 
the  southeastern  region  into  the  Aegean  Sea,  and  the  Neretva  drains 
the  south-central  region  into  the  Adriatic.  The  western  alpine  slopes 
parallel  to  the  coast  are  drained  into  the  Adriatic  by  surface  and 
underground  streams.  Underground  streams  are  formed  when 
water  seeps  through  the  limestone  of  the  alps  into  channels,  then 
empties  into  the  Adriatic  below  its  surface. 

Climate 

Yugoslavia  lies  in  the  southern  half  of  the  northern  temperate 
zone,  but  the  climate  of  its  mountains,  interior  plain,  and  seacoast 
varies  dramatically  according  to  elevation,  prevailing  winds,  and 
distance  from  the  sea.  The  mountain  regions  fall  under  the  influence 
of  continental  air  currents  and  Mediterranean  air  masses.  Snow 
blankets  most  of  the  highlands  during  the  winter,  but  temperature 
and  precipitation  differ  with  elevation.  For  example,  Montenegro's 
capital,  Titograd  (elevation  210  meters)  enjoys  an  average  monthly 
temperature  ten  degrees  warmer  than  that  of  Cetinje  (3,530  meters), 
which  is  only  40  kilometers  to  the  west;  and  Crkvica  (5,776  meters), 


64 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


a  town  32  kilometers  north  of  Cetinje,  averages  4,623  millimeters 
of  annual  rainfall,  three  times  more  than  Titograd.  The  interior 
plain  has  a  continental  climate  featuring  hot,  humid  summers.  A 
dry  wind,  the  Kosava,  brings  freezing  air  from  central  Eurasia  in 
the  winter,  but  snowfall  is  usually  light.  The  Dalmatian  coast  en- 
joys mild  Mediterranean  weather.  Summers  on  the  coast  are  hot 
and  dry  with  turquoise  blue  skies;  a  fair  sea  breeze,  the  Maestral, 
cools  the  land  during  mornings  and  afternoons.  Winters  are  cool 
and  rainy.  A  chilling  winter  wind  known  as  the  Bura  sweeps  down 
through  gaps  in  the  coastal  mountains;  and  a  southwest  wind,  the 
Jugo,  brings  winter  rains.  Warm  winds  blow  up  the  Vardar  Val- 
ley from  the  Aegean  into  Macedonia,  making  subtropical  agricul- 
ture possible  in  some  parts  of  that  republic. 

Pollution 

After  World  War  II,  industrialization  and  urban  development 
progressed  rapidly  in  Yugoslavia.  As  in  other  East  European  coun- 
tries, the  environmental  effects  of  such  growth  went  unrecognized 
for  many  years.  In  the  1980s,  a  constitutional  amendment  and 
numerous  environmental  protection  laws  were  passed,  but  they  had 
little  initial  effect  on  pollution  of  the  air,  soil,  and  water.  A  small 
green  movement  struggled  to  bring  the  problem  onto  the  political 
agenda,  but  it  had  achieved  little  political  influence  as  of  1990.  Yu- 
goslavia's air  suffered  from  sulfur  dioxide  pollution  caused  by  ve- 
hicle emissions,  trash  fires,  and  the  burning  of  high-sulfur  lignite 
(soft  coal)  in  power  plants  and  home  heating  units.  Oil  spills  fre- 
quently appeared  on  the  Sava  River;  dangerous  levels  of  phenol 
in  the  Ibar  River  occasionally  required  the  town  of  Kraljevo  to  shut 
off  its  water  supply;  and  the  artificial  lake  above  the  Djerdap 
Hydroelectric  Station  on  the  Danube  was  referred  to  as  the  dump 
of  Europe.  Nuclear  waste  from  Yugoslavia's  only  nuclear  electric 
plant,  at  Krsko  in  Slovenia  (a  main  target  of  the  green  movement), 
had  almost  filled  its  subterranean  nuclear  waste  storage  facilities 
in  1990.  Deforestation  increased  soil  erosion  problems,  and  mounds 
of  trash  littered  the  roadsides  in  most  eastern  and  southern  rural 
areas. 

Population 

Yugoslavia's  resident  population  was  estimated  at  23.4  million 
people  in  1987,  up  from  15.7  million  in  1948  and  22.4  million  in 
1981.  In  addition,  over  a  million  Yugoslavs  lived  and  worked  for 
long  periods  of  time  in  other  European  countries.  The  country's 
population  density  grew  from  62  persons  per  square  kilometer  in 
1948  to  92  per  square  kilometer  in  1988. 


67 


Figure  6.  Topography  and  Drainage 


66 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Between  1961  and  1981,  Yugoslavia's  annual  population  growth 
(1.0  percent)  was  about  the  same  as  that  of  the  world's  developed 
countries.  By  1990,  the  rate  had  dropped  to  0.6  percent.  The  popu- 
lation growth  rate  in  Yugoslavia's  economically  less-developed 
regions,  however,  was  significantly  higher  than  that  in  the  devel- 
oped regions.  For  example,  in  1986  the  respective  annual  growth 
rates  of  Kosovo  and  Macedonia  were  2.5  percent  and  1.5  percent. 
By  comparison,  the  respective  rates  in  industrialized  Vojvodina 
and  Slovenia  were  only  0.5  percent  and  0.9  percent.  The  annual 
growth  rate  of  the  country's  working-age  population  was  1.3  per- 
cent, indicating  that  an  increasing  proportion  of  that  group  was 
found  in  the  less  developed  regions. 

The  average  age  of  Yugoslavia's  population  in  1986  was  33.9 
years.  Men  averaged  32.6  years  of  age;  women,  35.1.  The  aver- 
age age  of  the  Yugoslav  population  increased  over  the  last  half  cen- 
tury because  the  birth  rate  declined  and  life  expectancy  increased 
over  that  period  (see  table  2;  table  3,  Appendix).  Between  the  1921 
and  1981  censuses,  the  Yugoslav  population  as  a  whole  moved  from 
the  demographic  category  of  population  maturity  toward  the  oldest 
category,  demographic  old  age.  The  demographic  aging  of  the 
population  varied  in  different  parts  of  the  country,  however,  and 
in  1981  Yugoslavia's  republics  and  provinces  fit  into  different 
categories  of  demographic  aging.  The  populations  of  Vojvodina, 
Serbia  proper  (see  Glossary),  and  Croatia  were  in  demographic 
old  age;  those  in  Montenegro  and  Slovenia  were  on  the  threshold 
of  demographic  old  age;  those  in  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  and 
Macedonia  had  reached  demographic  maturity;  the  population  of 
Kosovo,  however,  was  still  in  demographic  youth. 

Life  expectancy  began  to  increase  in  1918,  lengthening  from  about 
35  years  to  67.8  years  for  men  and  73.5  years  for  women  in  1982. 
After  World  War  II,  the  mortality  rate  in  Yugoslavia  declined  pre- 
cipitously. In  1984  the  country  had  a  mortality  rate  of  about  9.3 
per  thousand,  down  from  12.8  per  thousand  in  1947.  In  Kosovo  the 
mortality  rate  dropped  from  13  per  thousand  in  1947  to  5.8  in  1984, 
while  in  Slovenia  it  dropped  from  13.5  to  10.9  per  thousand. 

Yugoslavia's  infant  mortality  rate,  a  key  indicator  of  a  popula- 
tion's social,  economic,  health  care,  and  cultural  levels,  dropped 
from  118.6  infant  deaths  per  thousand  births  in  1950  to  28.9  per 
thousand  in  1984.  In  1984  Vojvodina  (12.0  infant  deaths  per  thou- 
sand births),  Slovenia  (15.7),  and  Croatia  (15.8)  reported  Yugo- 
slavia's lowest  infant  mortality  rates,  while  Kosovo  (63.1)  and 
Macedonia  (49.5)  reported  the  highest.  In  spite  of  higher  living  stan- 
dards and  health  care,  however,  in  1985  Yugoslavia's  infant  mor- 
tality rate  ranked  only  above  Albania  among  European  countries. 


68 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


In  Slovenia,  Croatia,  Vojvodina,  and  Serbia  proper,  birth  rates 
declined  together  with  the  mortality  rate.  But  in  Bosnia  and  Her- 
cegovina,  Macedonia,  and  Montenegro,  a  rapid  drop  in  the  birth 
rate  came  only  after  1960,  while  Kosovo's  birth  rate  dropped  only 
slightly  through  1990.  By  1980  the  population  explosion  among 
Kosovo's  ethnic  Albanians  had  become  Yugoslavia's  most  press- 
ing demographic  problem.  Between  1950  and  1983,  the  popula- 
tion of  Kosovo  grew  by  about  220  percent,  while  the  Yugoslav  total 
increased  by  only  39  percent.  Kosovo's  high  annual  birth  rate  (about 
29  births  per  thousand  in  1988,  the  highest  in  Europe)  and  the  in- 
creased life  expectancy  of  the  population  spurred  this  demograph- 
ic growth.  Although  Kosovo's  birth  rate  declined  somewhat  during 
the  1980s,  the  absolute  number  of  births  increased  while  the  mor- 
tality rate  declined.  By  1980  Kosovo  had  become  the  most  densely 
populated  part  of  Yugoslavia  (146  persons  per  square  kilometer), 
although  it  remained  the  country's  least-developed  region. 

In  the  mid-1960s,  the  government  began  actively  supporting 
family  planning  practices  to  control  population  growth.  In  1969 
the  Federal  Assembly  (Skupstina)  passed  a  liberalized  abortion  law. 
At  the  same  time,  the  government  passed  a  resolution  on  family 
planning  that  urged  expansion  of  free  programs  in  family  plan- 
ning and  modern  contraceptive  techniques.  The  resolution  also  em- 
phasized the  role  of  the  social  services  and  other  national  institutions 
in  sex  education  and  planned  parenthood.  After  1969  the  obvious 
failure  of  family  planning  in  Kosovo  produced  calls  for  greater  dis- 
semination of  birth  control  information  and  devices  and  establish- 
ment of  family  planning  counseling  services.  The  winning  party 
in  Croatia's  1990  republican  elections,  however,  ran  on  a  platform 
that  called  for  banning  abortion.  The  party's  victory  raised  the  pos- 
sibility of  antiabortion  legislation  in  that  republic. 

Yugoslavia's  Peoples 

Modern  Yugoslavia  had  its  genesis  in  a  nineteenth-century 
Romantic  idea  that  the  South  Slavs,  chiefly  the  Serbs,  Croats,  Slo- 
venes, and  Bui  gars,  should  be  united  in  a  single  independent  state. 
Except  for  the  existence  of  an  independent  Bulgaria,  the  Yugosla- 
via created  after  World  War  I  was  a  virtual  realization  of  this  idea. 
With  the  creation  of  the  South  Slav  state,  however,  the  Yugoslavs 
had  to  face  the  fact  that  besides  similar  languages,  similar  ancient 
ethnic  roots,  and  the  shared  experience  of  foreign  oppression,  they 
had  rather  little  in  common. 

Ethnographic  History 

The  South  Slavs  lived  for  centuries  on  two  sides  of  a  disputed 


69 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

border  between  the  Eastern  and  Western  Roman  Empires,  between 
the  Eastern  Orthodox  and  the  Roman  Catholic  churches,  between 
the  Islamic  crescent  and  the  Christian  cross.  Those  on  the  Eastern 
side  (today's  Serbs,  Montenegrins,  Muslim  Slavs,  and  Macedo- 
nians) had  lived  under  Byzantine  and  Turkish  influence;  those  on 
the  Western  side  (the  Slovenes  and  Croats)  had  lived  under  the 
religious  authority  of  Rome  and  the  secular  authority  of  Vienna, 
Budapest,  and  Venice.  Besides  the  South  Slavs,  the  Yugoslav  state 
contained  a  melange  of  minority  peoples,  many  of  them  non-Slavic, 
who  professed  different  religions,  spoke  different  languages,  and 
had  different  and  often  conflicting  historical  assumptions  and 
desires.  With  over  twenty-five  distinct  nationalities,  Yugoslavia  had 
one  of  the  most  complex  ethnic  profiles  in  Europe.  Over  seventy 
years  after  Yugoslavia's  creation  in  1918,  serious  doubts  remained 
that  a  federation  of  such  disparate  elements  could  continue  as  an 
integrated  state. 

The  Constitution  of  1974  divided  the  country's  ethnic  groups 
into  two  categories:  nations  (see  Glossary),  or  ethnic  groups  whose 
traditional  territorial  homelands  lay  within  the  country's  modern 
boundaries,  and  nationalities,  or  ethnic  groups  whose  traditional 
homelands  lay  outside  those  boundaries.  The  Yugoslav  nations  were 
the  Croats,  Macedonians,  Montenegrins,  Muslim  Slavs,  Serbs,  and 
Slovenes  (see  fig.  7).  Yugoslavia's  main  nationalities  were  the  Al- 
banians, Bulgars,  Czechs,  Hungarians,  Italians,  Romanians, 
Ruthenians,  Slovaks,  Turks,  and  Ukrainians  (see  table  4,  Appen- 
dix). Other  nationalities  included  the  Austrians,  Germans,  Greeks, 
Gypsies,  Jews,  Poles,  Russians,  and  Vlachs  (a  Romanian  group). 
The  other  nationalities  besides  these  totaled  less  than  0.1  percent 
of  the  country's  population  and  did  not  enjoy  special  constitution- 
al status  as  nationalities;  as  individuals,  however,  they  were  enti- 
tled to  the  same  rights  and  freedoms  guaranteed  all  other  Yugoslavs 
in  the  national  Constitution. 

Ethnic  Composition 

Serbs  constituted  more  than  a  third  of  the  total  population  in 
the  1981  census.  They  were  followed  by  the  Croats  (19.7  percent), 
Muslim  Slavs  (8.9  percent),  Slovenes  (7.8  percent),  Albanians  (7.7 
percent),  Macedonians  (6.0  percent),  Montenegrins  (2.6  percent), 
and  Hungarians  (1.9  percent).  In  the  1981  census,  about  1.2  mil- 
lion people,  or  5.4  percent  of  the  country's  population,  declared 
themselves  to  be  ethnic  Yugoslavs,  a  fourfold  increase  since  1971 . 
Yugoslav  scholars  disagree  about  the  reason  for  this  rise  in  avowed 
Yugoslavism.  Demographers  have  attributed  the  increase  to  an  up- 
swing in  popular  identification  with  Yugoslavia  as  a  state  following 


70 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


the  death  of  Tito  in  1980  and  to  minority  group  members  declar- 
ing themselves  Yugoslav  nationals.  Given  the  national  tensions  of 
the  late  1980s,  analysts  eagerly  awaited  the  1991  census  for  new 
trends  in  Yugoslav  national  identification. 

Yugoslavia's  overall  ethnic  makeup  did  not  change  drastically 
in  the  seventy  years  after  the  country  was  founded,  despite  the  fact 
that  the  population  grew  by  more  than  70  percent  during  that  time. 
Exceptions  to  this  pattern  of  stability  were  the  marked  increase  of 
the  Albanian  population  and  a  steep  decline  in  the  numbers  of  Jews, 
ethnic  Germans,  and  Hungarians  after  World  War  II. 

Most  of  Yugoslavia's  six  republics  and  two  provinces  showed 
significant  ethnic  diversity.  Only  Serbia  proper,  Slovenia,  and  Mon- 
tenegro were  largely  homogeneous.  Croatia  had  a  substantial  Ser- 
bian minority  of  nearly  12  percent.  Macedonia  had  Turks,  Vlachs, 
and  a  fast- growing  Albanian  population.  Muslim  Slavs,  Serbs,  and 
Croats  made  up  the  population  of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina,  but 
no  single  group  predominated.  Kosovo  was  predominantly  Alba- 
nian with  Serbian,  Montenegrin,  and  Muslim  Slav  minorities;  and 
a  Serbian  majority  shared  Vojvodina  with  Hungarians  (at  19  per- 
cent, the  largest  minority  in  that  province),  Croats,  and  many  less 
numerous  groups  (see  table  5,  Appendix). 

Complicating  the  ethnic  situation  was  the  fact  that  most  nation- 
alities were  not  confined  within  the  borders  of  the  country's  repub- 
lics, provinces,  or  districts  (opstine,  the  next  largest  jurisdiction). 
For  example,  in  1981  about  98  percent  of  all  Yugoslavia's  Slovenes 
lived  in  Slovenia,  and  about  96  percent  of  its  Macedonians  lived 
in  Macedonia;  but  only  60  percent  of  the  Serbs  lived  in  Serbia 
proper,  and  only  70  percent  of  the  Montenegrins  lived  in  Mon- 
tenegro. In  the  postwar  era,  the  share  of  a  republic's  population 
that  belonged  to  that  republic's  dominant  national  group  general- 
ly declined.  Thus,  in  Slovenia,  where  Slovenes  accounted  for  98 
percent  of  the  population  in  1948,  they  accounted  for  only  about 
90  percent  in  1981. 

Yugoslavia's  federal  and  republican  constitutions  guarantee  equal 
rights  for  all  ethnic  groups,  including  the  right  to  participate  in 
public  life,  government,  and  the  armed  forces.  Minority  national- 
ities have  the  right  to  organize  groups  to  exercise  their  cultural  rights 
and  promote  their  national  interests.  Article  1 19  of  the  federal  crimi- 
nal code,  however,  prohibits  propaganda  and  other  activities  aimed 
at  inciting  or  fomenting  national,  racial,  or  religious  intolerance, 
hatred,  or  dissension  between  nations  and  nationalities.  The  federal 
and  republican  constitutions  also  provide  for  proportional  represen- 
tation of  the  nations  and  nationalities  in  assemblies,  commissions, 


71 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  7.  Ethnic  Groups 


the  highest  levels  of  the  army's  officer  corps,  and  other  govern- 
ment institutions. 

Languages 

According  to  the  1974  Constitution,  the  three  official  languages 
of  Yugoslavia  were  Serbo-Croatian,  Slovenian,  and  Macedonian. 
Serbo-Croatian  has  an  eastern  and  a  western  variant;  it  is  written 
in  the  Latin  alphabet  in  Croatia  and  in  the  Cyrillic  alphabet  (see 
Glossary)  in  Serbia  and  Montenegro  (see  fig.  8).  Both  alphabets 
are  used  in  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina.  Ironically,  the  Croatian  liter- 
ary variant  is  closer  to  the  language  spoken  by  most  Serbs  and  Mon- 
tenegrins than  to  that  spoken  by  most  Croats.  Like  Serbo-Croatian, 
Slovenian,  which  uses  the  Latin  alphabet,  became  a  literary  lan- 
guage in  the  nineteenth  century.  Macedonian,  which  has  elements 


72 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


of  both  Bulgarian  and  Serbo-Croatian,  obtained  a  standardized 
Cyrillic-based  alphabet  and  orthography  only  after  World  War  II. 

In  order  of  usage,  Yugoslavia's  most  significant  minority  lan- 
guages included  Albanian,  Hungarian,  Turkish,  Bulgarian,  Roma- 
nian, Italian,  Vlach,  Czech,  Slovak,  Ruthenian,  and  Romany,  the 
language  of  the  Gypsies.  The  Constitution  guaranteed  members 
of  the  nationalities  the  right  to  use  their  own  language  and  alphabet, 
including  the  right  to  use  it  in  public  affairs  and  in  addressing 
government  agencies.  The  nationalities  also  received  the  option 
of  education  in  their  native  language  through  high  school  or  voca- 
tional school  (see  Education,  this  ch.).  Children  attending  such 
schools  were  required  to  study  one  of  the  three  official  Yugoslav 
languages.  In  1990  the  government  of  Serbia  filled  a  gap  in  this 
guarantee  by  opening  the  first  Romany-language  primary  school 
in  the  world.  In  the  1970s,  the  government  eliminated  the  require- 
ment that  schoolchildren  study  a  second  official  Yugoslav  language; 
this  change  caused  a  steep  drop  in  the  number  of  Slovenian  and 
Albanian  students  who  learned  Serbo-Croatian  and  threatened  to 
isolate  some  Slovenian  and  Albanian  communities. 

The  Yugoslav  Nations 

In  1990  national  identity  remained  a  vital  characteristic  in  Yu- 
goslavia, and  distrust  across  ethnic  boundaries  persisted.  Second 
only  to  the  government  bureaucracy,  nationalism  and  ethnically 
based  discrimination  provided  the  universal  explanation  for  all  evils 
befalling  the  Yugoslav  peoples.  Kosovan  Albanians  complained  that 
Macedonians  purposely  built  their  province's  roads  badly;  Serbs 
complained  that  the  Slovenes  exploited  their  economy  and  that  they 
were  the  victims  of  plotting  Croats,  Slovenes,  and  Islamic-funda- 
mentalist ethnic  Albanians;  Croats  and  Slovenes  feared  Serbian 
domination  and  complained  of  the  lack  of  discipline  of  their  fellow 
Yugoslavs  to  the  south. 

The  deepest  and  oldest  national  rivalry  in  Yugoslavia  was  the 
one  between  the  Serbs  and  Croats,  who  despite  their  shared  lan- 
guage possessed  different  social  and  value  systems  and  political  cul- 
tures. Two  sayings  illustrated  these  animosities  and  the  essential 
difference  in  the  inherited  political  styles  of  both  peoples.  The  first 
says:  The  very  way  of  life  of  a  Serb  and  Croat  is  a  deliberate  provo- 
cation by  each  to  the  other.  The  second,  a  self-complimentary  Ser- 
bian stereotype,  says:  In  a  conflict  with  authority,  the  Serb  reaches 
for  the  sword  and  the  Croat  for  his  pen.  The  Serbian  stereotype 
refers  to  the  tradition  of  the  hajduk,  the  idealized  mountain  renegade 
who  responded  violently  to  the  oppressive  anarchy  of  the  Ottoman 
Empire  during  its  last  two  centuries;  the  Croatian  stereotype  reflects 


73 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  8.  Principal  Languages  and  Religions 

the  cultural  influence  of  responding  through  the  legal  system  to 
the  Habsburgs'  highly  bureau cratized  infringements  on  national 
and  individual  freedoms  in  Croatia. 

Serbs 

The  demographic  distribution  and  ethnic  outlook  of  the  Serbs 
exerted  paramount  influence  on  the  shape  of  the  modern  Yugo- 
slav state  from  the  very  beginning.  The  Serbs  were  Yugoslavia's 
most  populous  and  most  dispersed  nationality.  Although  concen- 
trated in  Serbia  proper,  in  1981  they  also  accounted  for  substan- 
tial portions  of  the  population  of  Kosovo  (13.2  percent),  Vojvodina 
(54.4  percent),  Croatia  (11.5  percent),  and  Bosnia  and  Hercego- 
vina  (32.0  percent).  Historically,  the  first  cause  of  this  scattering 
was  the  severe  oppression  of  Serbs  under  Ottoman  occupation, 


74 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


which  led  to  migration  to  the  unoccupied  territory  to  the  west.  Af- 
ter World  War  II,  Yugoslavia's  first  communist  government  tried 
to  define  the  country's  postwar  federal  units  to  limit  the  Serbian 
domination  believed  largely  responsible  for  the  political  turmoil 
of  the  interwar  period.  This  meant  reducing  Serbia  proper  to 
achieve  political  recognition  of  Macedonian  and  Montenegrin  ethnic 
individuality  and  the  mixed  populations  of  Vojvodina,  Kosovo, 
and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  (see  Formation  of  the  South  Slav  State, 
ch.  1). 

The  Serbs'  forefathers  built  a  rich  kingdom  during  the  thirteenth 
and  fourteenth  centuries,  then  suffered  under  Ottoman  occupa- 
tion for  370  years  (1459-1829).  During  the  Ottoman  era,  the  Ser- 
bian Orthodox  Church  preserved  the  Serbs'  sense  of  nationhood 
and  reinforced  the  collective  memory  of  past  glory.  The  church 
canonized  medieval  Serbian  kings;  fresco  painters  preserved  their 
images;  and  priests  recited  a  litany  of  their  names  at  daily  masses. 
Until  the  nineteenth  century,  virtually  all  Serbs  were  peasants;  the 
small  percentage  that  lived  in  towns  as  traders  and  craftsmen  wore 
Turkish  costume  and  lived  a  Turkish  life-style.  Until  the  twentieth 
century,  peasant  Serbs  lived  mainly  in  extended  families,  with  four 
or  five  nuclear  families  residing  in  the  same  house.  An  elder 
managed  the  household  and  property  (see  The  Family,  this  ch.). 

The  independence  movement  of  the  nineteenth  century  brought 
significant  cultural  changes  to  the  Serbs.  During  that  century,  the 
scholars  Dositej  Obradovic  and  Vuk  Karadzic  overcame  stiff  op- 
position from  the  Orthodox  Church  to  foster  creation  of  the  modern 
Serbian  literary  language,  which  is  based  on  the  speech  of  the  or- 
dinary people.  Karadzic  adapted  the  Cyrillic  alphabet  to  create  the 
form  still  used  in  Yugoslavia. 

After  World  War  I,  the  Serbs  considered  themselves  the  libera- 
tors of  Croatia  and  Slovenia — nations  whose  loyalty  the  Serbs  found 
suspect  because  they  had  seemed  unwilling  or  unable  to  rise  against 
Austria-Hungary  in  the  independence  struggles  that  preceded 
World  War  I.  The  Serbian  political  elite  of  the  interwar  Kingdom 
of  Yugoslavia  was  extremely  centralist  and  accustomed  to  wield- 
ing unshared  power.  On  the  eve  of  World  War  II,  the  Yugoslav 
army  officer  corps  and  the  civilian  bureaucracy  were  dominated 
by  Serbs  (2  Croats  and  2  Slovenes  were  generals;  the  other  161 
generals  were  either  Serbs  or  Montenegrins).  Serbian  hegemony 
in  interwar  Yugoslavia  triggered  a  militant  backlash  in  Croatia, 
Macedonia,  and  Kosovo;  during  World  War  II,  Croatian  nation- 
alist fanatics  butchered  Serbs,  Jews,  and  Gypsies  with  a  brutal- 
ity that  appalled  even  the  Nazis  (see  Partition  and  Terror,  ch.  1). 


75 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Serbs'  memories  of  their  medieval  kingdom,  their  1389 
defeat  by  the  Ottoman  Turks,  their  nineteenth-century  uprisings, 
and  their  heavy  sacrifices  during  twentieth-century  wars  contributed 
significantly  to  their  feeling  that  they  had  sacrificed  much  for  Yu- 
goslavia and  received  relatively  little  in  return.  In  the  late  1980s, 
a  passionate  Serbian  nationalist  revival  arose  from  this  sense  of  un- 
fulfilled expectation,  from  the  postwar  distribution  of  the  Serbs 
among  various  Yugoslav  political  entities,  and  from  perceived  dis- 
crimination against  the  Serbs  in  Kosovo  in  the  1970s  and  1980s 
(see  Serbia,  ch.  4).  In  this  process,  the  Serbian  Orthodox  Church 
reemerged  as  a  strong  cultural  influence,  and  the  government  of 
Serbia  renewed  celebrations  of  the  memories  of  Serbian  heroes  and 
deeds.  These  events  caused  leaders  in  Slovenia  and  Croatia  to  fear 
a  resurgence  of  the  Serbian  hegemony  that  had  disrupted  inter- 
war  Yugoslavia  (see  Regional  Political  Issues,  ch.  4). 

The  Serbian- Albanian  struggle  for  Kosovo,  the  heartland  of  Ser- 
bia's medieval  kingdom,  dominated  Serbia's  political  life  and  cafe 
conversation  in  the  1980s.  Between  1948  and  1990,  the  Serbian 
share  of  Kosovo's  population  dropped  from  23.6  percent  to  less 
than  10  percent,  while  the  ethnic  Albanian  share  increased  in 
proportion  because  of  a  high  birth  rate  and  immigration  from  Al- 
bania. The  demographic  change  was  also  the  result  of  political  and 
economic  conditions;  the  postwar  Serbian  exodus  from  Kosovo 
accelerated  in  1966  after  ethnic  Albanian  communist  leaders  gained 
control  of  the  province,  and  Kosovo  remained  the  most  poverty- 
stricken  region  of  Yugoslavia  in  spite  of  huge  government  invest- 
ments (see  Regional  Disparities,  ch.  3;  Kosovo,  ch.  4).  After 
reasserting  political  control  over  Kosovo  in  1989,  the  Serbian 
government  announced  an  ambitious  program  to  resettle  Serbs  in 
Kosovo,  but  the  plan  attracted  scant  interest  among  Serbian  emigres 
from  the  region. 

In  the  republics  of  Croatia  and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina,  the 
Serbs'  situation  was  more  complex  and  potentially  more  explosive 
than  in  Kosovo.  Despite  denials  from  the  governments  of  both 
republics,  Serbs  in  Croatia  and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  complained 
bitterly  in  the  late  1980s  about  ethnically  based  discrimination  and 
threats.  The  Serbian  government  reacted  with  published  exposes 
of  World  War  II  atrocities  against  Serbs  and  the  Croatian  chau- 
vinism that  had  inspired  them. 

Mon  tene grins 

A  robust  mountain  people  with  a  warrior  tradition,  the  Mon- 
tenegrins were  the  smallest  in  population  of  Yugoslavia's  nations. 
In  1981  they  made  up  68.5  percent  of  Montenegro's  population, 


76 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


1.4  percent  of  Serbia  proper's,  2.1  percent  of  Vojvodina's,  and 
1.7  percent  of  Kosovo's.  The  Montenegrins  and  the  Serbs  shared 
strong  political  and  cultural  ties,  including  the  Eastern  Orthodox 
faith,  the  Cyrillic  alphabet,  the  Serbo-Croatian  language  (differ- 
ent dialects),  and  a  history  of  bloody  struggle  against  the  Ottoman 
Turks.  Many  historians  maintain  that  the  Montenegrins  are  Serbs. 
Montenegro's  most  renowned  poet  and  ruler,  the  nineteenth- 
century  bishop-prince  Petar  II  Njegos,  considered  himself  a  Serb; 
likewise,  the  founder  of  Serbia's  medieval  kingdom,  Stefan  I 
Nemanja,  was  born  in  Podgorica,  now  Titograd,  capital  of  Mon- 
tenegro. 

For  centuries  Montenegrin  society  was  composed  of  patrilineal- 
ly  related  extended  families  organized  into  clans.  The  extended 
family  tradition  lasted  well  into  the  twentieth  century.  Loyalty  to 
kin  and  protection  of  family  honor  were  the  paramount  values.  Civic 
responsibility  was  a  foreign  notion,  and  pragmatism  was  a  sign  of 
weakness.  Scratching  out  a  living  in  the  remote,  rocky  hills,  the 
Montenegrins  stubbornly  defended  their  independence  against  in- 
cursions by  the  Ottoman  Turks.  Personal  tenacity  and  combat  skills 
were  the  most  valued  male  virtues;  women  tended  the  fields  and 
livestock,  maintained  the  home,  nursed  the  wounded,  and  nourished 
the  next  generation  of  warriors.  Stories  of  ancestral  courage  and 
honor  were  passed  from  one  generation  to  the  next  by  bards  who 
recited  epic  poems  to  the  accompaniment  of  agusle,  a  simple,  single- 
string  instrument.  Practices  such  as  bride  theft  and  blood  brother- 
hood were  common,  and  blood  vengeance  survived  late  in  the  twen- 
tieth century. 

After  World  War  I,  political  forces  in  Montenegro  were  deeply 
divided  between  the  Greens,  who  supported  an  independent  Mon- 
tenegro, and  the  Whites,  who  advocated  unification  with  Serbia. 
The  Whites  prevailed,  and  in  censuses  taken  during  the  interwar 
period  Montenegrins  were  classified  as  Serbs.  Montenegrins  played 
a  significant  role  in  the  defense  forces  of  the  interwar  Kingdom 
of  Yugoslavia. 

Montenegrins  enlisted  in  the  communist  Partisans  in  large  num- 
bers during  World  War  II  and  were  disproportionately  repre- 
sented in  the  Communist  Party  of  Yugoslavia  (CPY)  and  the 
government  after  the  war.  Although  a  large  number  of  Montene- 
grin communists  were  expelled  from  the  CPY  for  pro-Soviet  sym- 
pathies after  Yugoslavia  broke  with  the  Soviet  Union  in  1948, 
Montenegrins  remained  overrepresented  in  the  Yugoslav  bureaucra- 
tic and  military  services.  In  the  early  1970s,  Montenegrins  made 
up  roughly  5  percent  of  the  population.  But  about  15  percent  of 
the  leaders  of  federal  administrative  bodies  were  Montenegrins, 


77 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

nearly  20  percent  of  the  generals  in  the  Yugoslav  People's  Army 
(YPA)  were  Montenegrin,  and  their  presence  in  the  overall  officer 
corps  was  also  disproportionately  high  (see  The  Military  and  So- 
ciety, ch.  5).  The  Montenegrins'  postwar  loyalty  to  the  CPY  yielded 
plentiful  development  funds  for  their  republic.  For  this  reason, 
Montenegrin  industries  developed  dramatically,  although  often 
without  rational  distribution  of  resources.  Much  investment  was 
inordinately  capital  intensive  and  wasted,  and  the  republic  suffered 
from  low  prices  for  the  raw  materials  it  sold  to  other  republics. 

Croats 

The  Croats,  a  people  with  long-frustrated  national  ambitions, 
have  seen  themselves  for  decades  as  cultured  West  Europeans  shack- 
led to  the  backward  Balkans.  Yugoslavia's  second  most  numerous 
ethnic  group,  the  Croats  accounted  for  75.1  percent  of  Croatia's 
population,  18.4  percent  of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina's,  1.4  per- 
cent of  Montenegro's,  2.9  percent  of  Slovenia's,  0.5  percent  of  Ser- 
bia proper's,  and  5.4  percent  of  Vojvodina's,  according  to  the  1981 
census.  Small  enclaves  of  Croats  were  as  far  removed  as  Kosovo 
and  Romania.  As  the  1990s  began,  however,  the  Republic  of  Croa- 
tia anticipated  radical  changes  in  its  relations  with  the  rest  of  Yu- 
goslavia potentially  leading  to  the  first  independent  Croatian  state 
since  medieval  times. 

The  Croats  enjoyed  their  own  medieval  kingdom  for  several  cen- 
turies before  a  long  period  of  Hungarian  rule  from  1102  to  1918. 
Most  Croats  lived  under  Hungarian  kings  until  1526  and  under 
Habsburg  monarchs  thereafter;  the  Croats  of  Bosnia  and  Hercego- 
vina  and  Slavonia  lived  under  Ottoman  rule  for  several  hundred 
years;  and  the  Croats  of  Dalmatia  passed  from  Hungarian  to  Vene- 
tian to  Austrian  rule.  With  the  help  of  Roman  Catholic  clerics, 
the  Croats  maintained  a  strong  collective  memory  of  their  former 
statehood  despite  their  centuries  of  foreign  domination.  Two  pivotal 
events  in  the  Croats'  social  development  were  the  birth  of  modern 
Croatian  national  sentiment  after  a  brief  period  of  Napoleonic  rule 
in  the  early  nineteenth  century  and  the  emancipation  of  the  serfs 
in  1848.  Writers,  scholars,  merchants,  and  wealthy  landowners  led 
the  Croatian  national  movement,  which  was  triggered  by  resistance 
to  Hungary's  drive  to  impose  Magyar  (the  national  language  of 
Hungary)  as  the  language  of  public  life  in  Croatia  in  the  mid- 
nineteenth  century  (see  The  Croats  and  Their  Territories,  ch.  1). 

Before  the  1848  revolution  against  the  Austrian  Empire,  the 
Croats'  social  structure  was  rigidly  stratified.  The  peasantry  con- 
sisted of  serfs  bound  to  the  land,  semi-serfs  who  held  land  on  con- 
dition of  labor  and  other  payments,  and  landless  peasant-nobles. 


78 


79 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

At  the  end  of  the  nineteenth  century,  only  a  very  small  proportion 
of  Croatia's  total  population  was  employed  in  industry.  The  land- 
owner class  kept  the  peasants  uneducated  to  ensure  easy  exploita- 
tion. Among  the  peasants  in  Croatia,  traditional  extended  families 
gradually  gave  way  to  individual  family  farms  after  the  abolition 
of  serfdom  in  the  Austrian  Empire  in  1848,  but  rural  overpopula- 
tion and  land  fragmentation  brought  hunger  to  many  areas  by  the 
turn  of  the  century.  During  the  late  1800s,  many  Croats  emigrat- 
ed to  the  Americas  and  Australia. 

After  1868  Croatian  nationalists  actively  protested  Hungary's 
Magyarization  campaigns;  later,  between  the  world  wars,  they 
spoke  against  Serbian  hegemony  and  for  a  loose  Yugoslav  federa- 
tion or  complete  independence  for  Croatia.  During  World  War 
II,  Hitler  established  a  puppet  fascist  regime,  run  by  the  terrorist 
Ustase  (see  Glossary),  to  rule  a  greater  Croatian  state  whose  popu- 
lation was  roughly  half  Serb.  Substantial  numbers  of  Croatian  na- 
tionalists and  clergy  took  part  in  this  regime.  The  Ustase  were 
vehemently  Roman  Catholic,  anti-Serb,  and  anti-Semitic;  their 
avowed  policy  was  to  obliterate  the  Serbs  from  their  territory  by 
conversion,  deportation,  or  execution.  The  regime  closed  all  Ser- 
bian Orthodox  primary  schools,  outlawed  the  Cyrillic  alphabet, 
and  ordered  Serbs  to  wear  colored  arm  bands. 

After  1945  Yugoslavia's  communist  regime  worked  to  snuff  out 
manifestations  of  Croatian  nationalism  wherever  they  appeared, 
labeling  advocates  of  Croatian  national  interests  as  neo-Ustase.  Na- 
tional aspirations  reached  a  brief  peak  in  1971  in  what  was  called 
the  Croatian  Spring,  but  their  threat  to  the  federation  caused  Tito 
to  crack  down  severely  in  1972.  In  1990  the  sweeping  victory  of 
Franjo  Tudjman's  anticommunist  Croatian  Democratic  Union  in 
the  republican  parliamentary  elections  brought  a  new  rush  of  Croa- 
tian nationalism.  Croats  campaigned  to  distinguish  Croatian  as  a 
separate  language,  and  new  Slavic-root  words  were  introduced  to 
replace  words  borrowed  from  foreign  languages.  Old  Croatian  na- 
tional symbols  reappeared,  and  in  October  1989,  a  statue  of  revolu- 
tionary patriot  Josip  Jelacic  was  restored  to  Zagreb's  central  square, 
forty- two  years  after  its  removal  by  federal  authorities. 

Slovenes 

The  Slovenes  were  among  the  most  westernized  but  least  numer- 
ous of  the  Slavs.  About  2  million  strong,  they  lived  almost  exclu- 
sively in  the  mountainous  Republic  of  Slovenia  and  in  enclaves 
in  Austria  and  Italy  bordering  Slovenia.  The  Slovenes  never  pos- 
sessed an  independent  state  but  lived  within  German-dominated 


80 


A  canal  in  Ljubljana 
Courtesy  Sam  and  Sarah  Stulberg 


empires  from  Charlemagne's  day  to  the  end  of  World  War  I.  From 
the  thirteenth  to  the  twentieth  century,  they  were  ruled  by  the  Aus- 
trian Habsburgs.  Centuries  of  exposure  to  a  strong  Germanic,  Ro- 
man Catholic  culture  fostered  qualities  that  distinguish  the  Slovenes 
from  the  Croats,  who  lived  under  the  Hungarians,  and  the  Serbs, 
who  lived  under  the  Turks,  during  the  same  period.  The  tenacity 
of  the  Slovenian  drive  for  ethnic  and  cultural  survival  was  evident 
under  German  cultural  hegemony  and  surfaced  again  when  the 
Slovenes  spearheaded  the  drive  for  democratic  reforms  in  com- 
munist Yugoslavia  in  the  late  1980s. 

Slovenian  cultural  self- awareness  dates  from  the  Protestant  Refor- 
mation and  the  Catholic  Counterreformation.  Propagandists  for 
both  sides  made  use  of  the  Slovenian  language,  which  at  the  time 
was  exclusively  a  peasant  idiom.  This  bolstering  of  the  Slovenes' 
linguistic  identity  laid  the  foundation  for  the  later  growth  of  a  Slove- 
nian sense  of  national  identity,  which  began  in  earnest  after  Napo- 
leon's armies  occupied  Slovene-populated  regions  in  the  early 
nineteenth  century  and  promoted  the  idea  of  a  Slovenian  nation.  One 
of  the  few  monuments  to  Napoleon  outside  France  remains  in  Lju- 
bljana, as  evidence  of  Napoleonic  influence  on  the  Slovenes.  Intel- 
lectuals trained  by  the  Catholic  clergy  led  the  Slovenian  national 
movement  through  the  nineteenth  century.  Led  by  the  Romantic 


81 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

poet  France  Preseren,  they  established  Slovenian  as  a  literary  lan- 
guage and  produced  a  rich  national  literature.  Slovenian  leaders 
sought  political  and  cultural  autonomy  under  the  Habsburgs  rather 
than  territorial  independence.  Although  they  sympathized  with  their 
coreligionist  Croats,  the  Slovenes  had  no  interest  in  uniting  with 
the  Orthodox  Serbs  until  World  War  I. 

The  Slovenes  were  by  far  the  most  economically  advanced  of 
the  South  Slavs  at  the  close  of  the  nineteenth  century,  and  Slove- 
nia maintained  that  position  in  the  interwar  years.  Widespread 
primogeniture  (land  inheritance  by  the  oldest  son)  in  Slovenia  limit- 
ed the  land  fragmentation  that  plagued  the  Balkans.  Credit  and 
marketing  cooperatives  saved  rural  Slovenian  families  from  the 
chronic  indebtedness  that  afflicted  other  regions  in  the  1920s  and 
1930s.  The  Slovenes'  readiness  to  negotiate  and  compromise  also 
served  them  well  in  the  interwar  era.  Their  most  important  con- 
tribution to  interwar  Yugoslavia's  parade  of  coalition  governments 
was  Monsignor  Antun  Korosec,  leader  of  the  conservative  Populist 
Party.  Korosec,  an  effective  spokesman  for  Slovene  interests,  headed 
several  Yugoslav  ministries  in  the  late  1920s  and  early  1930s.  The 
Slovenes'  linguistic  distinctiveness  and  distance  from  Belgrade  kept 
their  republic  free  of  the  Serbian  bureaucrats  who  gained  strong 
influence  over  other  republics  during  the  interwar  years. 

Slovenia's  level  of  prosperity  remained  higher  than  that  of  the 
other  Yugoslav  republics  throughout  the  socialist  era.  Because  its 
per  capita  income  was  highest,  the  republic  contributed  a  higher 
per  capita  share  to  Yugoslavia's  federal  funds  than  any  other  repub- 
lic. The  Slovenes  complained  that  the  less  developed  republics  ex- 
ploited them  and  that  as  a  result  their  standard  of  living  slipped 
precipitously  relative  to  that  in  the  neighboring  regions  of  Austria 
and  Italy.  Nevertheless,  among  the  Yugoslav  republics,  Slovenia 
had  the  highest  proportion  of  its  population  employed  in  indus- 
try, the  lowest  rate  of  unemployment,  and  the  highest  value  of  ex- 
ports per  capita.  Slovenia  also  boasted  one  of  Europe's  highest 
literacy  rates  in  the  1980s.  Throughout  the  turbulent  late  1980s, 
the  Slovenes  maintained  a  strong  sense  of  cultural  continuity  and 
a  devout  belief  in  Roman  Catholicism. 

Muslim  Slavs 

Beginning  in  the  late  1960s,  the  Yugoslav  government  recog- 
nized the  Muslim  Slavs  of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  as  a  particular 
nation  and  not  merely  as  a  religious  group.  Belgrade  granted  this 
recognition  in  an  effort  to  resolve  the  centuries-old  struggle  in  which 
Serbs  and  Croats  claimed  ethnic  ties  with  the  Muslim  Slavs  to 
gain  a  political  majority  in  the  disputed  republic  of  Bosnia  and 


82 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Hercegovina.  Muslim  Slavs  lived  in  every  Yugoslav  republic  and 
province,  but  by  far  the  largest  concentration  was  in  Bosnia  and 
Hercegovina  (39.5  percent  of  the  population).  In  the  1980s,  Mon- 
tenegro was  13.4  percent  Muslim  Slavs,  Serbia  proper  2.7  percent, 
and  Kosovo  3.7  percent. 

Controversy  surrounds  the  geographic  and  ethnic  origins  of  the 
Muslim  Slavs.  The  best-known  theory  holds  that  during  the  Mid- 
dle Ages  Slavs  in  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  embraced  a  heretical 
form  of  Christianity  known  as  Bogomilism,  then  converted  in  large 
numbers  to  Islam  when  the  Ottoman  Turks  conquered  them.  A 
second  theory  says  that  the  Muslim  Slavs  were  Serbs  who  embraced 
Islam  and  settled  in  Bosnia.  A  third  is  that  the  Muslims  were  Turk- 
ish settlers  from  Anatolia  who  adopted  the  Serbo-Croatian  language. 
In  any  case,  Islamization  brought  tangible  economic  and  social 
benefits  to  those  who  converted  while  the  Turks  ruled  their  terri- 
tory; by  1918  Muslim  Slavs  accounted  for  91  percent  of  Bosnia's 
landowners  and  a  large  portion  of  its  merchants.  Many  emigrated 
to  Turkey,  however,  after  the  end  of  Ottoman  rule,  and  the  Yu- 
goslav land  reforms  of  1918  impoverished  previously  prosperous 
Muslim  Slav  landowners. 

Islamic  culture  dominated  Bosnia  for  centuries,  and  the  region 
now  boasts  a  wealth  of  mosques,  medreseler  (Islamic  schools),  tekkel- 
er  (dervish  monasteries),  Turkish  inns  and  baths,  graceful  stone 
bridges,  covered  bazaars,  cemeteries,  and  ornate  Turkish-style 
homes.  Modern  Western  culture  penetrated  Bosnia  and  Hercego- 
vina only  after  Austria  occupied  the  region  in  1878,  but  most  Mus- 
lims saw  its  influence  as  alien  and  a  portent  of  a  Roman  Catholic 
resurgence.  Gradually,  Latin  and  Cyrillic  scripts  replaced  the  Arabic 
that  was  used  for  centuries  to  write  Turkish,  Arabic,  and  Persian 
literature.  After  1918  secular  education  began  supplanting  Islamic 
schools,  and  education  became  available  to  women.  Many  Muslim 
Slav  landowners  became  urban  tradesmen  and  craftsmen  after  losing 
their  properties  in  the  interwar  land  reform.  Long  after  World  War 
II,  the  Muslim  Slavs  engaged  predominantly  in  traditional  crafts 
and  modern  services  such  as  automobile  and  electronics  repair. 

In  need  of  inexpensive  oil  supplies  in  the  1970s,  the  Tito  govern- 
ment encouraged  relations  between  Yugoslavia's  Muslim  Slavs  and 
their  coreligionists  in  the  oil-rich  Arab  countries,  especially  Libya. 
But  by  raising  the  status  and  visibility  of  its  Muslim  Slavs,  Yugosla- 
via created  another  potential  nationalist  issue  within  its  borders. 
In  1983  a  dozen  persons  were  convicted  of  fomenting  religious  and 
national  hatred  and  planning  to  turn  Bosnia  into  a  religiously  pure 
Islamic  state.  The  likelihood  of  major  upheaval  sponsored  by  Mus- 
lim fundamentalists  abroad  was  considered  small,  however,  because 


83 


84 


Mostar  and  the  Neretva  River 
Courtesy  Sam  and  Sarah  Stulberg 


85 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

most  of  Yugoslavia's  Muslim  population  belonged  to  the  Sunni 
branch  of  Islam  not  in  sympathy  with  the  main  fundamentalist 
groups  of  the  Middle  East  (see  Islam,  this  ch.). 

Macedonians 

Beginning  in  the  seventh  century  A.D.,  the  area  of  the  modern 
Republic  of  Macedonia  was  overwhelmingly  populated  by  Slavs; 
and  in  the  ninth  century,  Macedonia  produced  the  first  flourish 
of  Slavic  literary  activity.  Unresolved,  however,  is  the  specific  na- 
tionality to  which  Macedonia's  Slavs  now  belong.  The  Bulgars, 
the  Serbs,  and  the  Greeks  claim  them.  Bulgaria  recognized  the  Mac- 
edonian minority  in  the  Pirin  region  that  it  retained  after  World 
War  II.  In  the  late  1980s,  however,  neither  Bulgaria  nor  Greece 
recognized  a  Macedonian  nationality:  Bulgaria  insisted  that 
Macedonia's  Slavs  were  Bulgars;  Greece  maintained  that  the  ad- 
jective "Macedonian"  was  only  a  territorial  designation,  and  that 
the  inhabitants  of  Aegean  Macedonia  were  not  Slavs  at  all  but  ethnic 
Greeks  who  happened  to  speak  a  Slavic  language.  By  contrast,  be- 
ginning in  the  1960s  the  Yugoslav  government  gave  the  Macedo- 
nians the  nominal  status  of  a  separate  nation,  to  forestall  Greek 
and  Bulgarian  claims.  In  1981  Yugoslav  statistics  showed  about 
1.3  million  ethnic  Macedonians  in  Yugoslavia,  250,000  in  Pirin 
Macedonia  (southwestern  Bulgaria),  and  over  300,000  in  Aegean 
Macedonia  (northern  Greece).  According  to  the  1981  census, 
Macedonians  made  up  6  percent  of  Yugoslavia's  total  population, 
67  percent  of  Macedonia's,  and  0.5  percent  of  Serbia  proper's. 

Macedonia  was  the  first  of  the  Yugoslav  lands  to  fall  under  the 
Ottoman  Turks  and  the  last  to  be  freed  from  Ottoman  rule.  The 
dark  centuries  of  Ottoman  domination  left  the  region's  Slavs  back- 
ward, illiterate,  and  unsure  of  their  ethnic  identity.  In  the  nineteenth 
century,  Bulgarian,  Serbian,  and  Greek  clergy  established  church 
schools  in  the  region  and  worked  to  spread  their  respective  national 
ideologies  through  education.  Families  often  compromised  by  send- 
ing one  child  to  each  type  of  school,  and  whole  villages  frequently 
passed  through  several  phases  of  religious  and  national  reorienta- 
tion. After  the  end  of  Ottoman  rule,  control  of  Macedonia  became 
the  most  inflammatory  issue  of  Balkan  politics.  After  a  period  of 
guerrilla  warfare,  terrorism,  and  savage  reprisals  ending  with  Bul- 
garia's defeat  in  the  Second  Balkan  War  in  1913,  an  anti-Bulgarian 
campaign  began  in  the  areas  of  Macedonia  left  under  Serbian  and 
Greek  control.  Bulgarian  schools  and  churches  were  closed,  and 
thousands  of  Macedonians  fled  to  Bulgaria,  which  then  was  viewed 
as  a  place  of  refuge.  The  process  was  repeated  after  Bulgaria's  World 
War  I  occupation  of  Macedonia  ended.  In  the  interwar  period, 


86 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Macedonian  terrorist  groups,  with  intermittent  Bulgarian  support, 
continued  armed  resistance  against  the  Yugoslav  government.  The 
Yugoslavs  refused  to  recognize  a  Macedonian  nation,  but  many 
Macedonians  accepted  Yugoslav  control  in  the  1930s  and  1940s. 
Bulgarian  occupation  in  1941,  first  greeted  as  liberation,  soon 
proved  as  offensive  as  the  Yugoslav  assimilation  program  it  replaced; 
the  sense  of  confused  allegiance  among  Macedonians  thus  continued 
into  the  postwar  period. 

After  World  War  II,  the  Yugoslav  government  recognized  Mace- 
donian nationhood  and  established  a  separate  republic,  energetically 
nurturing  Macedonian  national  consciousness  and  the  Macedonian 
language.  The  first  standardized  Macedonian  grammar  was  pub- 
lished in  1948.  Federal  support  for  Macedonian  cultural  institu- 
tions, including  a  university  in  Skopje,  furthered  the  program  of 
national  recognition.  In  1967  Belgrade  underscored  the  Macedo- 
nians' ethnic  individuality  by  supporting  the  independence  of  the 
Macedonian  Orthodox  Church,  which  for  years  afterward  enjoyed 
a  more  favored  position  than  any  of  Yugoslavia's  other  churches. 

Albanians 

Yugoslavia's  ethnic  Albanians  lived  mainly  in  Kosovo  (about 
77.4  percent),  Serbia  proper  (1.3  percent),  Macedonia  (officially 
about  19.8  percent  but  probably  much  higher),  and  Montenegro 
(about  6.3  percent).  In  recent  decades,  a  search  for  work  drew  ethnic 
Albanians  to  the  country's  larger  cities  as  well  as  to  Western  Eu- 
rope and  North  America.  Despite  the  fact  that  the  1.7  million  eth- 
nic Albanians  counted  in  the  1981  census  exceeded  the  populations 
of  Macedonians  and  Montenegrins  in  Yugoslavia,  Albanians  were 
not  recognized  as  a  nation  under  the  1974  Constitution  because, 
according  to  the  Yugoslav  government,  their  traditional  homeland 
was  outside  Yugoslavia.  In  general,  Albanian  culture  was  practiced 
more  openly  in  Yugoslavia  than  in  Albania,  where  the  remains  of 
Stalinist  suppression  limited  many  aspects  of  self-expression.  Thus, 
ironically,  Yugoslavia  was  the  only  place  where  some  Albanian  tra- 
ditions were  preserved. 

Albanians  were  once  a  mostiy  Roman  Catholic  people.  After  the 
Ottoman  Turks  conquered  them  in  the  fifteenth  century,  many 
Albanian  families  gained  economic  and  social  advantages  by  con- 
verting to  Islam.  By  1990  only  about  10  percent  of  Kosovo's  eth- 
nic Albanians  were  Catholic. 

In  the  late  eighteenth  century,  Albanians  held  important  posts 
in  the  Ottoman  army,  courts,  and  administration.  Feudal  econom- 
ic relations  survived  among  the  ethnic  Albanians  of  Kosovo  and 
Macedonia  until  Serbia  took  those  regions  from  the  Ottoman  Empire 


87 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

in  1913.  After  World  War  I ,  the  Serbian  government  made  repeated 
attempts  to  colonize  Kosovo  with  the  families  of  its  officer  corps. 
Under  Serbia,  Albanians  enjoyed  no  voice  in  local  administration, 
no  schools,  and  no  publications  in  their  own  language  in  the  inter- 
war  period.  Serbs  and  Montenegrins  dominated  the  administra- 
tion of  Kosovo  from  1946  to  1966,  despite  the  numerical  superiority 
of  the  Kosovan  Albanians,  their  postwar  recognition  as  a  distinct 
nationality,  and  the  introduction  of  Albanian-language  schools  and 
publications. 

In  1966  Aleksandar  Rankovic,  the  Serbian  head  of  the  Yugo- 
slav secret  police,  fell  from  power,  and  Kosovan  Albanians  assumed 
a  dominant  position  in  the  province.  After  1968  Albanians  were 
permitted  to  display  the  national  flag  of  Albania  in  Kosovo  and 
adopt  the  official  Albanian  literary  language,  which  is  based  on 
the  dialect  of  Albania  rather  than  that  spoken  in  Kosovo.  Cultural 
exchanges  introduced  teachers  from  Albania  and  textbooks  print- 
ed in  Albania.  Yugoslavia's  1974  Constitution  gave  Kosovo  vir- 
tually the  same  rights  as  the  country's  constituent  republics; 
nowhere  in  Europe  had  such  far-ranging  concessions  to  national 
rights  been  granted  in  a  region  considered  so  potentially  separatist. 
After  that  time,  however,  the  clash  of  extreme  Serbian  and  Kosovan 
nationalist  ideologies  caused  a  Serbian  nationalist  backlash  that  re- 
voked many  of  those  concessions  (see  Kosovo,  ch.  4). 

For  centuries,  ethnic  Albanian  villagers  in  Kosovo  lived  in  ex- 
tended families  of  70  to  100  members  ruled  by  a  patriarch.  Although 
the  traditional  extended  family  structure  eroded  steadily  after  World 
War  II,  in  1990  extended  families  of  20  to  40  members  still  lived 
within  walled  compounds.  Blood  vengeance,  arranged  marriages, 
and  polygamy  were  not  uncommon.  Many  Albanian  women  lived 
secluded  in  the  home,  subordinate  to  male  authority,  and  with  lit- 
tle or  no  access  to  education. 

In  1990  Yugoslavia's  ethnic  Albanians  had  the  highest  birth  rate 
in  Europe,  and  more  than  half  of  Kosovo's  Albanians  were  under 
twenty  years  old  in  the  late  1970s.  The  birth  rate  strained  the 
region's  already  desperate  economy  and  depressed  the  Albanians' 
standard  of  living  in  every  area.  The  ethnic  Albanians  also  had 
Yugoslavia's  lowest  literacy  rate:  68.5  percent  of  individuals  over 
age  ten  were  able  to  read  in  1979.  In  1981  only  178,000  of  1.5 
million  Albanians  in  Kosovo  were  employed;  one  in  four  of  those 
employed  held  nominal  bureaucratic  positions.  Meanwhile,  the  stu- 
dent population  of  470,000  was  a  constant  source  of  political  un- 
rest and  potentially  higher  unemployment  upon  graduation. 


88 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Gypsies 

Yugoslavia  had  one  of  the  largest  Gypsy  populations  in  the  world. 
The  1981  census  officially  recorded  168,099  Gypsies  in  the  coun- 
try, but  unofficial  counts  estimated  the  Gypsy  population  as  five 
to  six  times  larger.  The  Gypsies  suffered  many  serious  social 
problems,  and  intolerance  of  Gypsies  by  other  ethnic  groups  was 
still  prevalent  in  the  northern  parts  of  Yugoslavia  in  the  1980s.  A 
high  percentage  of  Gypsies  were  illiterate  or  had  only  a  few  years 
of  primary  education.  Despite  government  attempts  to  lure  them 
into  schools  and  paying  jobs,  many  Gypsies  continued  to  live  a 
nomadic  existence  as  traders,  beggars,  and  fortune-tellers.  Dur- 
ing the  1980s,  large  conventions  periodically  demanded  full  rec- 
ognition of  Yugoslav  Gypsies  as  a  separate  nation;  the  federal 
government  reached  no  decision  on  their  proposals,  although  some 
concessions  were  made.  Meanwhile,  the  Gypsies  undeniably  ad- 
ded a  unique  element  to  Yugoslav  culture:  Gypsy  musicians  played 
at  most  weddings,  and  Gypsy  street  bands  played  music  for  hand- 
outs on  holiday  weekends. 

Social  Groups 

Although  Yugoslavia's  ethnic  landscape  remained  relatively  stable 
during  the  twentieth  century,  its  socioeconomic  structure  under- 
went especially  profound  changes  after  World  War  II.  On  the  eve 
of  the  war,  Yugoslavia  was  a  predominantly  agricultural  land  with 
slowly  developing  basic  industries.  Society's  broad  base  was  the 
peasantry,  which  made  up  over  80  percent  of  the  population.  The 
country  had  a  minuscule  working  class;  government  bureaucrats 
and  a  few  entrepreneurs,  professionals,  merchants,  and  artisans 
made  up  the  elite.  After  World  War  II,  Yugoslavia's  communist 
rulers  ordered  rapid  industrialization,  and  peasants  left  their  farms 
in  droves  to  fill  industrial  and  office  jobs  in  the  cities.  The  com- 
munists brushed  aside  the  prewar  elite,  nationalized  about  80  per- 
cent of  their  property,  and  established  a  new  class  of  government 
bureaucrats.  For  several  decades,  party  membership  and  educa- 
tion were  the  keys  to  upward  mobility  in  Yugoslav  society.  But 
the  economic  downturn  of  the  1970s  and  1980s  brought  nagging 
unemployment  and  stifling  bureaucracy  that  seriously  impeded  en- 
try into  the  working  and  managing  classes,  even  for  educated  and 
skilled  individuals.  Yugoslavia's  immense  postwar  social  transfor- 
mation brought  profound  changes  to  the  family  structure,  the  lives 
of  women,  young  people,  and  the  elderly. 

The  Peasantry 

Under  the  post- World  War  II  communist  regime,  Yugoslavia 


89 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

experienced  one  of  the  quickest  transformations  from  an  agricul- 
tural to  an  industrial  society  that  history  has  ever  witnessed.  The 
agricultural  population  shrank  from  86.1  percent  of  the  total  popu- 
lation in  1921  to  67.1  percent  in  1948  and  to  16.7  percent  in  1984. 
By  comparison,  it  took  the  United  States  ninety  years  to  drop  from 
a  72  percent  farm  population  in  1840  to  32  percent  in  1930.  Aside 
from  government  economic  policies  that  intentionally  deprived 
agriculture  of  resources  after  World  War  II,  social  factors  also 
pushed  peasants  off  the  land  (see  Application  of  Stalinist  Econom- 
ics, ch.  3).  The  lack  of  pension  benefits  for  peasants,  the  absence 
of  social  benefits  for  their  children,  limited  availability  of  state  hous- 
ing in  rural  areas,  and  isolation  from  the  lively  cultural  and  social 
life  of  the  urban  centers  accelerated  the  process. 

Despite  their  dramatic  shift  from  agricultural  to  nonagricultur- 
al  activities,  Yugoslavs  remained  linked  to  the  soil  in  many  ways. 
The  country's  agricultural  population  still  numbered  4.3  million 
in  1981;  of  that  number,  2.2  to  2.9  million  tilled  small  private  plots, 
including  about  1.5  million  people  who  held  regular  jobs  elsewhere. 
Even  before  the  economic  turmoil  of  the  late  1980s,  many  city 
dwellers,  especially  retirees  with  inadequate  pensions,  supplemented 
their  income  and  their  diet  by  selling  or  consuming  produce  they 
grew  or  livestock  they  raised  on  small  plots  in  nearby  villages. 

The  average  age  of  Yugoslavia's  peasant  population  rose  rapid- 
ly after  World  War  II.  Moreover,  given  the  outward  migration 
of  young  men,  by  the  1970s  women  accounted  for  60  percent  of 
the  agricultural  work  force.  In  35  percent  of  farm  households,  no 
children  remained  to  operate  the  farm  when  the  older  generation 
retired.  In  1990  the  federal  government  proposed  a  law  to  provide 
pensions  for  individual  peasant  farmers  and  to  give  young  people 
greater  incentive  not  to  abandon  the  land  for  city  jobs. 

The  Soviet- style  agricultural  collectivization  program  began  in 
Yugoslavia  in  1949  and  ended  less  than  four  years  later.  Aban- 
donment of  collectivization  left  the  country's  prewar  patchwork  of 
small  private  landholdings  virtually  intact.  Peasants  accounted  for 
95  percent  of  the  agricultural  work  force  and  owned  about  82  per- 
cent of  Yugoslavia's  arable  land  in  1989.  The  average  peasant  farm 
had  eight  or  nine  parcels  of  land  totaling  about  3.4  hectares.  Con- 
stitutional amendments  adopted  in  1988  raised  the  ceiling  on  land- 
ownership  from  ten  to  thirty  hectares  in  flatland  areas  and  sixty 
hectares  in  hilly  and  mountainous  regions. 

Conditions  on  the  average  Yugoslav  peasant  farm  changed  dra- 
matically after  1945;  significant  differences  remained,  however, 
between  peasant  life  in  the  more  developed  northwestern  parts  of 
the  country  and  that  in  the  less  developed  southeastern  regions. 


90 


Lake  Bled,  Slovenia 
Courtesy  Sam  and  Sarah  Stulberg 

In  1990  electricity  was  available  virtually  everywhere,  and  many 
peasant  households  had  artificial  lighting,  refrigeration,  freezers, 
radios,  and  televisions.  Few  peasants,  however,  had  telephones. 
The  number  of  tractors  had  risen,  but  fragmented  landownership 
made  large-scale  mechanized  farming  impossible  in  most  areas. 
Mechanization  of  farm  activities  in  more  developed  regions  reduced 
the  necessity  for  human  toil,  but  the  overall  efficiency  of  Yugoslav 
farms  lagged  far  behind  that  of  farms  in  the  West.  On  the  aver- 
age, one  Yugoslav  farmer  produced  enough  agricultural  goods  for 
five  people,  whereas  in  Western  industrial  countries  average  produc- 
tion fed  sixty-five  people. 

In  part  the  exodus  from  agricultural  life  in  Yugoslavia  was  driven 
by  a  desire  to  cast  off  ways  of  life  that  peasants  themselves  often 
considered  obsolete.  Older  villagers,  frequently  painfully  aware  of 
their  backwardness,  wished  to  see  their  children  and  grandchildren 
find  a  life  for  themselves  in  what  they  called  the  wide  world.  Yu- 
goslavia's peasant  villages,  however,  shed  many  traditions  only  very 
slowly.  In  1990  older  men  and  women  still  wore  folk  costumes  in 
some  parts  of  Hercegovina,  Macedonia,  and  Kosovo.  Peasant 
dances,  handicrafts,  and  powerful  locally  distilled  beverages  re- 
mained part  of  everyday  life.  Priests  baptized  most  newborns  and 
buried  most  of  the  dead,  but  villagers  in  many  areas  still  visited 


91 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

traditional  folk  healers  and  fortune-tellers,  who  read  the  future  in 
coffee  grounds.  While  all  was  amiable  on  the  surface,  behind  the 
scenes  family  and  neighborhood  animosities  persisted  through  the 
generations,  and  villagers  squabbled  bitterly  over  scarce  resources 
and  inheritances.  Cafes  were  filled  with  old  men  during  the  day 
and  younger  men  at  night.  Alcoholism  commonly  afflicted  both 
men  and  women,  and  alcohol-related  road  and  farm  accidents 
claimed  an  inordinate  number  of  lives. 

Transportation  improvements  after  the  war  gave  many  peasants 
the  opportunity  to  work  away  from  the  family  farm  and  still  retain 
close  links  with  their  homes.  Uprooted  peasants  accounted  for  about 
half  the  Yugoslav  guest  workers  in  Western  Europe  (see  Guest  Work- 
ers, this  ch.).  By  1970  some  1.5  million  peasants,  about  25  per- 
cent of  the  economically  active  rural  population,  held  jobs  outside 
agriculture,  and  about  half  of  Yugoslavia's  rural  population  lived 
in  households  with  at  least  one  member  who  held  an  industrial  job. 
Money  sent  home  by  guest  workers  abroad  created  a  boom  in  new 
rural  home  building,  even  in  some  of  the  least  accessible  moun- 
tain areas.  In  eastern  Serbia,  this  prosperity  was  expressed  in  the 
building  of  extravagant  cemetery  monuments,  including  graveside 
cottages. 

The  Workers 

The  Yugoslav  industrial  working  class  grew  exponentially  after 
World  War  II,  when  the  communist  regime  launched  its  drive  for 
rapid  industrialization.  From  1947  to  1952,  industrial  employment 
grew  by  75.2  percent  as  peasants  left  their  farms  for  jobs  in  the 
cities.  From  1954  to  1975,  industrial  jobs  grew  at  an  average  an- 
nual rate  of  4.3  percent,  and  the  industrial  working  class  grew  from 
1.1  million  in  1947  to  6.3  million  in  1985.  In  the  mid-1980s,  the 
social  sector  (see  Glossary)  of  the  economy  employed  about  98  per- 
cent of  the  country's  workers. 

Several  years  after  Yugoslavia's  1948  economic  break  with  the 
Soviet  Union,  the  government  instituted  a  comprehensive  economic 
reform  that  transformed  state  ownership  of  enterprises  into  social 
ownership  and  theoretically  turned  over  control  of  the  enterprises 
to  the  workers  who  labored  in  them  (see  Socialist  Self- Management, 
ch.  3).  Socialist  self-management  remained  a  sacrosanct  tenet  of 
the  Yugoslav  political  culture  for  the  next  thirty-five  years,  until 
economic  turmoil  forced  structural  reform  in  1989. 

Under  self-management,  workers  who  were  permanent  em- 
ployees in  enterprises  were  virtually  guaranteed  a  job  for  life.  If 
a  worker  terminated  employment  with  an  enterprise,  however,  he 


92 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


or  she  almost  always  lost  the  possibility  of  finding  another  posi- 
tion within  the  social  sector.  Under  the  Law  on  Associated  Labor 
of  1976,  each  worker  belonged  to  a  basic  organization  of  associat- 
ed labor  (BOAL)  assigned  according  to  his  or  her  precise  role  in 
the  production  process.  The  BOALs  elected  workers'  councils, 
which  in  turn  appointed  executive  bodies  to  set  wages  and  produc- 
tion goals  and  recommend  investment  policy.  The  executive  body 
appointed  a  director  or  board  responsible  for  day-to-day  operation 
of  the  enterprise. 

Despite  the  profoundly  egalitarian  ideology  on  which  it  was  based, 
practical  operation  of  self-management  reflected  the  stratification 
of  the  industrial  work  force.  Skilled  and  educated  workers  occupied 
a  disproportionately  large  number  of  seats  on  workers'  councils. 
From  the  mid-1950s  to  the  mid-1970s,  skilled  workers  (roughly  a 
third  of  enterprise  employees)  regularly  won  half  the  workers'  coun- 
cil slots;  the  percentage  of  semiskilled  or  unskilled  workers  declined 
during  the  same  period.  Workers'  council  presidents  also  came  dis- 
proportionately from  the  ranks  of  skilled  workers  or  white-collar 
employees.  Workers  with  advanced  educational  degrees  account- 
ed for  nearly  two-thirds  of  all  workers'  council  presidents.  The  com- 
position of  executive  bodies  reflected  the  same  trend. 

The  enterprise  director  and  the  director's  staff  wielded  consider- 
able influence.  Access  to  and  control  of  information  about  busi- 
ness conditions  and  overall  operation  of  the  enterprise  gave  the 
director  an  advantage  in  steering  workers'  council  decision  mak- 
ing. Workers  exercised  more  influence  on  policies  directly  affect- 
ing working  conditions  and  wages;  over  the  years,  they  left 
investment  and  production  decisions  and  daily  operation  of  the  en- 
terprise to  the  director. 

Self-managed  enterprises  responded  to  market  conditions  differ- 
ently than  firms  in  capitalist  countries,  and  the  relationship  of  the 
interests  of  management  and  skilled  and  unskilled  workers  also 
differed.  Policies  geared  toward  enhancing  the  enterprise's  efficiency 
and  competitiveness  conflicted  with  socially  guaranteed  higher 
wages  and  job  security  for  workers.  Economic  downturns  gener- 
ally caused  reductions  in  investment  rather  than  layoffs  or  reduced 
wages.  An  enterprise  could  reduce  its  labor  force  only  with  the 
workers'  consent.  This  normally  meant  long,  tedious  legal  proce- 
dures and  finding  alternative  employment  or  job  training  to  pre- 
vent workers  from  becoming  unemployed. 

The  economic  restructuring  that  followed  the  turmoil  of  the  1980s 
radically  changed  the  fortunes  of  the  working  class.  Strikes  reached 
epidemic  proportions  by  the  end  of  the  decade.  Large  numbers 
of  workers  returned  their  membership  cards  in  the  League  of 


93 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Communists  of  Yugoslavia  (LCY — see  Glossary),  and  by  1985 
party  membership  included  only  one  of  eleven  semiskilled  workers 
and  one  of  five  skilled  workers  (see  League  of  Communists  of  Yu- 
goslavia, ch.  4). 

Lacking  organizational  autonomy,  the  official  trade  unions  failed 
to  protect  the  workers'  living  standards,  and  workers  generally 
regarded  the  unions  as  irrelevant  (see  Trade  Unions,  ch.  4).  In 
the  late  1980s,  unofficial  unions  began  forming  in  Slovenia  and 
the  other  republics  after  the  government  lifted  restrictions  on  form- 
ing independent  organizations. 

Laws  restricting  private  business  ownership  became  increasingly 
ineffectual  in  the  late  1980s.  Most  often  ignored  were  tax  statutes 
and  restrictions  on  the  number  of  workers  employed  in  private  en- 
terprise. Workers  outside  the  social  sector  frequently  worked  sixty 
or  more  hours  per  week  and  earned  much  better  wages  than  those 
paid  for  the  same  work  in  the  social  sector.  Private  employers  often 
employed  skilled  workers  illegally,  especially  after  the  normal  closing 
hour  of  socially  owned  enterprises  (3:00  P.M.),  and  many  work- 
ers employed  in  the  social  sector  moonlighted  in  their  free  time. 

In  the  1980s,  unemployment  became  a  serious  threat  to  the  Yu- 
goslav working  class.  Between  1965  and  1985,  the  number  of  offi- 
cially unemployed  persons  rose  from  237,000  to  1,039,000. 
Unemployment  rates  varied  widely  among  regions.  Slovenia  con- 
sistently had  the  lowest,  Kosovo  by  far  the  highest  unemployment. 
The  comprehensive  economic  reform  of  December  1989  led  to  elimi- 
nation of  redundant  workers  in  Yugoslav  firms  and  brought  another 
steep  increase  in  national  unemployment  (see  Living  Standards, 
ch.  3).  In  the  initial  aftermath  of  the  reform,  government  plan- 
ners relied  on  expansion  in  the  private  sector  to  re-employ  work- 
ers who  lost  their  jobs.  In  the  first  year,  however,  unemployment 
continued  to  rise. 

The  Political  Elite  and  Intellectuals 

During  the  nineteenth  and  early  twentieth  centuries,  a  tiny  in- 
telligentsia dominated  the  process  of  social  and  political  change  that 
transformed  Yugoslav  society.  South  Slavic  writers,  journalists,  and 
scholars  articulated  popular  aspirations  and  acted  as  catalysts  for 
the  rising  nationalism  of  the  peoples  enclosed  by  the  Austro- 
Hungarian  and  Ottoman  empires.  In  interwar  Yugoslavia,  despite 
the  prevalence  of  revolving-door  cabinets,  a  group  of  about  forty 
to  fifty  educated  and  politically  experienced  figures  formed  a  semi- 
permanent ruling  circle.  The  bureaucratic  and  professional  class 
was  a  broader  middle  stratum  of  about  200,000  white-collar  work- 
ers concentrated  in  urban  centers.  Government  service,  which 


94 


Harbor  at  Dubrovnik 
Courtesy  Sam  and  Sarah  Stulberg 

required  secondary  and  university  schooling,  was  virtually  the  only 
employment  opportunity  available  for  ambitious  individuals. 

Yugoslavia's  interwar  ruling  elite  represented  the  tip  of  a  very 
broad-based  social  pyramid.  Society  was  overwhelmingly  rural  and 
uneducated;  only  about  half  of  the  population  could  read,  and  less 
than  10  percent  lived  in  cities.  The  elite  was  drawn  from  the  sons 
of  the  middle  and  upper  strata:  large  landowners  and  bureaucrats 
and  a  handful  of  industrialists,  financiers,  and  military  officers. 
No  rising  industrial  bourgeoisie  threatened  their  hold  on  the  state 
apparatus.  The  elite  was  also  overwhelmingly  Serbian;  most  Croa- 
tian intellectuals  and  the  minuscule  number  of  educated  Macedo- 
nians and  Albanians  were  excluded.  Their  exclusion  from  the  only 
path  to  upward  mobility — the  government  bureaucracy — exacerbated 
the  bitter  nationalism  and  separatism  of  the  era  (see  Political  Life 
in  the  1920s,  ch.  1). 

The  turmoil  of  World  War  II  and  political  takeover  by  the  CPY 
brought  radical  changes  to  Yugoslavia's  ruling  circle.  The  com- 
munists ousted  the  prewar  elite  and  replaced  it  with  a  new  ruling 
class  chosen  by  party  loyalty.  During  the  war,  the  party  was  com- 
posed largely  of  peasants  and  workers.  Party  leadership  was  sig- 
nificantly more  rural  than  the  prewar  elite;  in  1945  only  5  percent 


95 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

of  CPY  leaders  came  from  Belgrade,  the  former  bastion  of  power. 
In  1952  Yugoslavia's  communist  political  leadership  class  num- 
bered about  51,000;  it  grew  to  93,000  in  the  1960s  and  added 
another  100,000  members  in  the  mid-1970s  after  constitutional 
redefinition  of  the  self-management  system. 

In  the  immediate  postwar  period,  service  in  Tito's  anti-Nazi  Par- 
tisan forces  or  pre- 1941  membership  in  the  CPY  were  the  main 
prerequisites  for  a  successful  elite  career.  Over  75  percent  of 
pre- 1941  party  members  pursued  professional  political  or  military 
careers  following  World  War  II .  They  also  tended  to  linger  in  their 
positions.  Active  and  retired  persons  with  pre- 1941  party  mem- 
bership accounted  for  less  than  0.5  percent  of  total  party  member- 
ship in  the  late  1960s,  but  they  held  over  15  percent  of  the  leading 
positions  in  the  party  and  society  at  large.  By  the  1980s,  the  LCY 
had  lost  its  working-class  base  and  had  become  a  party  of  state  em- 
ployees. Party  members  accounted  for  94. 1  percent  of  the  Croatian 
parliament  in  1982.  Communists  accounted  for  over  95  percent 
of  all  government  administrators  until  the  LCY  abandoned  its  mo- 
nopoly of  power  in  1990.  Until  that  date,  nomination  of  delegates 
to  fill  positions  at  all  levels  of  the  government — which  led  to  auto- 
matic election — was  based  on  support  from  the  party  elite.  The 
party  monopoly  led  to  formation  of  uncontrollable  and  nonelected 
oligarchies  in  each  of  Yugoslavia's  eight  federal  units  (see  Local 
Government  and  the  Communes,  ch.  4). 

With  few  exceptions,  the  men  who  took  power  in  Yugoslavia 
after  World  War  II  were  the  sons  of  peasants  and  workers.  This 
pattern  persisted  through  the  1960s,  when  68.4  percent  of  Yugo- 
slavia's political  leaders  had  fathers  who  had  been  peasants  or 
workers  and  more  than  75  percent  had  grandfathers  from  those 
backgrounds.  The  same  pattern  applied  to  the  country's  profes- 
sional classes  as  a  whole.  In  1960  nearly  one-third  of  all  white-collar 
workers  had  been  peasants  themselves  in  1946,  and  nearly  three- 
fourths  came  from  peasant  or  worker  families. 

As  the  Partisan  generation  aged,  education  became  more  im- 
portant in  professional  advancement.  By  the  early  1970s,  about 
90  percent  of  the  country's  professionals  had  gained  their  positions 
at  least  nominally  on  the  basis  of  educational  credentials.  Older 
employees  upgraded  their  job  qualifications  through  continuing  edu- 
cation programs.  Expanding  opportunities  in  higher  education, 
liberal  admissions  standards,  and  substantial  public  financing  for 
education  all  contributed  to  upward  mobility  in  the  1960s  and  1970s. 
As  many  more  Yugoslavs  received  formal  educational  training 
and  reached  privileged  positions,  however,  mobility  declined.  The 
probability  that  children  of  workers  or  peasants  would  become 


96 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 

university  students  fell  compared  with  the  chances  of  the  children 
of  professionals. 

The  rise  of  a  substantial  technical  intelligentsia  was  a  major  so- 
cial development  in  postwar  Yugoslavia.  The  technical  intelligentsia, 
which  provided  scientific  and  management  support  for  industri- 
alization, came  to  enjoy  considerable  popular  prestige.  Although 
they  could  find  higher-paying  jobs  in  the  West,  relatively  few  mem- 
bers of  this  class  joined  the  massive  worker  emigration  to  Western 
Europe  that  began  in  the  late  1960s.  Before  Tito's  death  in  1980, 
the  technical  elite — who  supported  enterprise  autonomy — had  a 
hostile  relationship  with  party  and  government  officials  who  favored 
democratic  centralism.  In  the  mid-1960s,  party  hard-liners  attacked 
the  technocrats  for  their  petit  bourgeois  mentality  and  labeled  them 
class  enemies  who  subverted  self-management. 

The  communist  regime's  relationship  with  artists  and  scholars 
was  likewise  a  troubled  one.  Artists  and  scholars  were  constantly 
at  odds  with  the  government's  efforts  to  control  nationalism  and 
free  expression.  Numerous  Croatian  intellectuals  lost  their  jobs  or 
were  imprisoned  after  the  Croatian  Spring  of  1971,  and  trials  of 
dissident  writers  and  scholars  took  place  regularly  for  the  next  two 
decades  throughout  the  country  (see  Djilas,  Praxis,  and  Intellec- 
tual Repression,  ch.  4).  Intellectuals  came  to  the  fore  again  in  the 
late  1980s,  when  national  differences  divided  the  LCY.  Albanians 
were  the  most  manifestly  disaffected  intellectuals  in  the  1980s,  as 
they  fought  Serbian  restrictions  on  autonomy  for  Kosovo.  The 
Kosovo  issue  also  drew  Serbian  intellectuals  into  the  political  are- 
na. A  memorandum  written  by  leading  members  of  the  Serbian 
Academy  of  Sciences  and  leaked  to  a  Belgrade  newspaper  in  1986 
described  the  Serbian  nation  as  being  in  greater  jeopardy  than  at 
any  time  since  World  War  II.  Likewise,  Slovenian  intellectuals  led 
the  push  for  democratic  reforms  that  swept  over  the  country  from 
Slovenia  southward  in  the  late  1980s  (see  Intellectual  Opposition 
Groups,  ch.  4). 

The  Family 

Despite  the  massive  changes  of  the  socialist  era,  society  in  Yu- 
goslavia remained  oriented  around  family  and  kin.  Rights  and 
duties  were  defined  by  family  relationships  much  more  rigorously 
than  in  contemporary  Western  societies.  For  example,  the  1962 
Basic  Law  on  Relations  Between  Parents  and  Children  defined  the 
material  support  legally  due  one's  parents,  children,  siblings,  grand- 
parents, and  other  relatives.  The  law  obliged  citizens  to  support 
needy  or  incapacitated  relatives  and  specified  the  order  in  which 


97 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

aid  and  assistance  should  come  from  both  lineal  and  collateral 
relatives. 

The  zadruga  (pi.,  zadruge),  a  kin-based  corporate  group  holding 
property  in  common,  was  the  traditional  basis  of  rural  social  or- 
ganization throughout  the  Balkans.  From  the  feudal  era  onward, 
customary  and  formal  law  enshrined  the  rights  and  obligations  of 
zadruga  members.  Throughout  rural  Croatia,  Serbia,  Montenegro, 
Hercegovina,  Macedonia,  Kosovo,  and  much  of  Bosnia,  the  zadruga 
persisted  as  a  formally  constituted  kin  group  until  well  after  World 
War  II.  Its  most  common  form  was  a  group  of  patrilineally  relat- 
ed males,  along  with  their  spouses  and  children.  Members  of  a  zadru- 
ga generally  owned  and  farmed  land  in  common. 

The  zadruga  survived  because  membership  in  a  corporate  group 
conferred  clear  advantages  on  the  individual  peasant  family.  For 
the  Balkan  peasantry,  the  zadruga  made  it  possible  to  endure  wars, 
foreign  rule,  exploitation  of  new  lands,  conversion  from  pastoral- 
ism  to  agriculture,  and  seasonal  off-farm  employment.  Precise  con- 
figuration of  the  kin  group  varied  during  the  past  five  centuries 
in  response  to  regional  changes  in  political,  economic,  and  geo- 
graphic conditions.  The  zadruga  maintained  cultural  integrity  during 
centuries  of  foreign  domination,  and  it  protected  the  peasant  against 
the  predations  of  state  and  bandit.  Religious  practices  centered  on 
the  individual  zadruga  and  not  on  the  parish  church.  Even  among 
Muslim  Slavs,  each  zadruga  had  a  patron  saint;  the  saint's  day 
celebration,  the  slava,  remained  the  high  point  of  the  calendar  for 
many  families  late  in  the  twentieth  century. 

Large  multifamily  households  enjoyed  significant  advantages, 
especially  in  rural  areas,  well  into  the  twentieth  century.  A  sub- 
stantial adult  labor  force  permitted  family  members  to  specialize 
and  to  engage  in  a  variety  of  subsidiary  operations  to  supplement 
agricultural  income.  The  burden  of  agricultural  labor  could  be 
spread  at  peak  seasons,  men  were  freed  to  engage  in  politics,  and 
women  had  time  for  handicrafts.  An  extended  family's  wealth 
almost  always  exceeded  that  of  two  to  three  nuclear  households  of 
comparable  size.  The  zadruga  also  provided  a  refuge  for  the  or- 
phaned, the  widowed,  the  infirm,  and  the  elderly. 

The  composition  of  the  extended  family  changed  with  the  in- 
creasing life  expectancy  realized  in  the  twentieth  century.  The  num- 
ber of  generations  in  a  given  household  rose  from  two  to  three  or 
even  four,  while  the  number  of  collateral  relatives — brothers,  cousins, 
and  second  cousins — decreased.  Patriarchal  authority,  often  overbear- 
ing within  the  traditional  zadruga,  grew  more  so  as  the  life  expectan- 
cy of  the  parents  increased.  The  wars  of  the  twentieth  century  and 


98 


migration  away  from  rural  areas  after  World  War  II  caused  a 
decline  in  joint  ownership  of  property  by  extended  families. 

Under  communist  rule,  the  extended  family  became  a  coopera- 
tive rather  than  a  formally  corporate  kin  group;  but  family  loyalty 
and  a  general  feeling  of  responsibility  toward  kin  persisted.  In- 
dividuals relied  on  relatives  for  mutual  aid  and  support  in  a  wide 
variety  of  social  and  economic  contexts.  Family  solidarity  eased 
the  shock  of  urbanization  and  industrialization  throughout  the  1960s 
and  1970s;  relatives  provided  urban  housing  for  students  from  the 
countryside  and  employment  advice  and  assistance  for  the  recent 
rural  migrant.  Migrants  to  the  city  maintained  ties  with  their  kin 
in  the  country,  periodically  helping  with  agricultural  or  construc- 
tion tasks.  Among  the  country's  technical  and  managerial  elite, 
kinship  strengthened  the  relationship  between  commune  and  en- 
terprise and  reinforced  local  and  familial  loyalties. 

Nominal  kinship  in  the  form  of  godparenthood,  or  kumstvo,  cut 
across  the  familial  focus  of  South  Slavic  social  relations.  Kumstvo 
and  marriage  were  the  two  institutions  by  which  the  zadruga  formed 
ties  with  other  kin  groups.  Traditionally,  the  godparent- godchild 
relationship  formed  a  permanent  link,  inherited  patrilineally,  be- 
tween two  zadruge.  Although  kumstvo  observance  was  less  elaborate 
among  Muslim  Slavs,  they  did  observe  rituals  such  as  the  cutting 
of  a  child's  umbilical  cord  and  the  first  hair  cutting.  The  relationship 


99 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

implied  few  specific  obligations  between  the  zadruge  besides  a  general 
expectation  of  friendship  and  assistance. 

With  urbanization,  the  number  of  large  and  extended  families 
declined.  From  the  1948  census  to  the  1981  census,  average  fami- 
ly size  dropped  from  4.37  to  3.67  members.  The  decline  was  steepest 
in  the  developed  regions.  In  Kosovo,  approximately  three-quarters 
of  all  households  had  five  or  more  members  in  the  early  1970s, 
and  over  a  quarter  had  ten  or  more  members.  As  late  as  1953, 
about  one-third  of  all  Yugoslav  households  were  classified  as  ex- 
tended families.  The  percentage  of  extended  families  dropped 
precipitously  by  the  early  1970s.  Smaller  domestic  groups  appeared 
to  be  more  advantageous  in  an  urban  setting;  in  both  developed 
and  less-developed  regions,  only  about  one-fourth  of  all  urban 
households  were  extended  families  by  1980. 

The  Role  of  Women 

Traditionally,  women  played  subservient  roles  in  Yugoslavia's 
patriarchal  families,  especially  in  the  country's  backward  moun- 
tainous regions.  In  the  interwar  period,  specific  legislation  protected 
women's  subservient  status  within  the  family.  Rapid  industrializa- 
tion and  urbanization  in  the  communist  era  broke  down  traditional 
family  patterns  in  varying  degrees  among  the  landless  inhabitants 
of  rural  and  mountainous  areas.  This  trend  was  most  pronounced 
in  the  more  developed  northern  and  western  urban  areas.  The  num- 
ber of  women  employed  outside  the  home  rose  from  about  400,000 
in  1948  to  2.4  million  in  1985.  As  women  began  working  away 
from  home,  they  developed  a  more  independent  identity. 

After  World  War  II,  women  in  Yugoslavia  won  complete  civil 
and  political  rights  and  gained  access  to  education,  employment, 
social  welfare  programs,  health  care,  and  political  office.  Although 
women  became  better  educated  and  increasingly  employed, 
however,  they  did  not  generally  win  full  equality  in  the  job  mar- 
ket or  advancement  to  high  social  and  political  positions.  In  the 
1980s,  the  percentage  of  women  in  low-level  political  and  manage- 
ment positions  was  quite  representative,  but  their  representation 
declined  toward  the  top  of  the  administrative  pyramid. 

Women  accounted  for  38  percent  of  Yugoslavia's  nonagricul- 
tural  labor  force  in  1987,  up  from  26  percent  thirty  years  earlier. 
The  participation  of  women  in  the  Yugoslav  work  force  varied  dra- 
matically according  to  region.  In  Slovenia  women  made  up  43.9 
percent  of  trie  work  force;  in  Kosovo,  20  percent.  In  1989  Yugo- 
slav women  worked  primarily  in  three  fields:  cultural  and  social 
welfare  (56.3  percent  of  the  persons  employed  in  the  field),  public 
services  and  public  administration  (42  percent),  and  trade  and 


100 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


catering  (41.8  percent).  Almost  all  Yugoslavia's  elementary  school 
teachers  were  women. 

Although  women's  groups  had  formed  in  Ljubljana,  Zagreb,  and 
Belgrade  and  a  number  of  female  political  columnists  had  advo- 
cated the  feminist  cause,  as  of  1990  the  women's  movement  had 
yet  to  achieve  significant  power  in  Yugoslavia.  Feminist  commen- 
tators observed  that  Yugoslavia's  rapid  industrialization  had  not 
eradicated  traditional  patriarchalism  but  had  instead  created  a  new 
form  of  patriarchal  society  in  which  women  were  treated  as  sex 
objects  exploited  in  the  workplace  and  at  home.  Those  allegations 
were  backed  by  the  wide  availability  of  hard-core  pornography 
everywhere  in  the  country  and  the  fact  that  most  working  women 
were  still  expected  to  do  traditional  household  chores. 

Students  and  Youth 

Students  were  a  perennial  source  of  concern  for  Yugoslavia's 
communist  regime.  They  often  assumed  the  viewpoint  of  pure 
Marxism  in  criticizing  the  inequality  of  the  socialist  self- 
management  system;  in  general,  students  far  surpassed  their  elders 
in  demanding  reform.  Student  unrest  erupted  in  1968  at  several 
universities,  in  1971  at  the  University  of  Zagreb,  and  in  1981  at 
the  University  of  Pristina.  In  1968  students  in  Belgrade,  Zagreb, 
Ljubljana,  and  Sarajevo  protested  the  bourgeois  quality  of  Yugoslav 
socialism  and  the  failure  of  socialist  self-management  to  create  an 
egalitarian  society.  The  later  unrest  in  Zagreb  and  Pristina  was 
largely  an  expression  of  the  respective  nationalistic  goals  of  the 
Croats  and  the  Kosovans. 

In  the  late  1980s,  youth  publications,  especially  in  Slovenia, 
provided  an  important  public  platform  for  frank  debate  of  sensi- 
tive issues  and  taboo  topics,  such  as  nuclear  energy,  government 
corruption,  and  resistance  to  military  service  (see  The  Media,  ch. 
4).  With  the  collapse  of  communism  throughout  Eastern  Europe 
in  the  late  1980s,  student  activists  on  Yugoslav  campuses  focused 
on  issues  of  ecology,  nationalism,  women's  rights,  and  peace.  Poll- 
ing data,  however,  showed  a  high  degree  of  apathy  among  Yugo- 
slavia's young  people.  In  a  youth  opinion  poll  conducted  in  the 
port  city  of  Split,  83  percent  of  the  respondents  said  that  nepotism 
and  connections  were  essential  to  success;  53  percent  answered  that 
knowledge  and  intelligence  had  no  influence  whatsoever  on  social 
status,  advancement,  or  success  in  life. 

Pensioners 

Between  1965  and  1988,  the  number  of  Yugoslavs  receiving  old-age 
and  disability  pensions  and  survivor  benefits  rose  steeply  (see  table  6, 


101 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Appendix).  The  annual  rate  of  increase  was  4  to  7  percent,  de- 
pending on  the  republic  or  province.  This  growth  was  considera- 
bly higher  than  the  growth  in  the  employment  rate,  which  averaged 
2  percent  to  4.5  percent  annually  in  the  same  period.  The  number 
of  pensioners  grew  as  a  result  of  broader  coverage  by  old-age  pen- 
sion plans,  an  aging  population,  and  the  high  disability  rate  of 
laborers.  The  number  of  persons  receiving  survivor  benefits  also 
increased  between  1965  and  1988  as  a  result  of  the  relatively  high 
accident  mortality  rate. 

In  the  late  1980s,  retirement  and  disability  pensions  covered  all 
employed  individuals  and  all  self-employed  persons  outside  the 
agricultural  sector.  Pensions  also  were  available  to  private  farm- 
ers under  a  voluntary  payment  plan,  and  private  farmers  nearing 
old  age  were  offered  pensions  in  exchange  for  the  sale  of  their  land 
to  an  agricultural  cooperative.  Retirement  age  was  set  at  sixty  years 
after  at  least  twenty  years  of  service  for  men  and  fifty-five  years 
after  at  least  fifteen  years  for  women.  Retirement  became  manda- 
tory in  the  early  1970s.  The  economic  crisis  of  the  1980s  jeopardized 
Yugoslavia's  pension  system,  and  in  1990  pensions  often  went  un- 
paid for  months. 

Urbanization  and  Housing 

Despite  massive  post- World  War  II  migration  from  rural  vil- 
lages to  cities,  Yugoslavia  still  ranked  as  one  of  Europe's  least  ur- 
banized countries  in  1990.  At  the  war's  end,  almost  80  percent 
of  the  Yugoslav  population  lived  in  villages.  Over  the  next  twenty- 
five  years,  about  4.6  million  people,  equivalent  to  20  percent  of 
the  country's  1981  population,  migrated  to  cities.  The  urban  popu- 
lation grew  by  80  percent  between  1953  and  1971;  by  the  mid-1970s, 
slightly  over  one-third  of  all  Yugoslavs  lived  in  urban  centers. 

Housing 

Obtaining  adequate  housing  was  a  major  problem  in  all  Yugo- 
slav cities,  especially  for  rural  migrants.  For  years,  single  male 
migrants  resorted  to  dormitory- style  accommodations  that  many 
enterprises  maintained  for  their  workers.  Migrants  from  urban  areas 
fared  better  in  finding  housing  in  cities  because  of  their  greater 
experience  with  urban  life  and  generally  higher  education  or  profes- 
sional level.  The  quality  of  migrant  housing  usually  improved  with 
length  of  residence,  and  acquisition  of  satisfactory  housing  became 
a  mark  of  a  migrant's  success  in  a  new  location. 

Although  Yugoslavia  had  a  total  of  6.7  million  housing  units  in 
1984,  housing  remained  in  short  supply  in  every  urban  area,  and 


102 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


cost  began  to  increase  dramatically  in  the  1970s.  In  1987  the  price 
of  a  housing  unit  with  sixty  square  meters  of  floor  space  equaled 
about  twenty  average  annual  incomes.  While  the  urban  popula- 
tion grew  in  the  1970s,  housing  construction  in  Yugoslavia's  cities 
actually  dropped.  Urban  centers  received  10,000  fewer  new  hous- 
ing units  in  1978  than  in  1975,  a  decline  that  was  sharpest  in  the 
six  largest  cities.  In  Slovenia  this  fall  resulted  in  part  from  the  repub- 
lic's effort  to  promote  the  simultaneous  growth  of  several  urban 
centers.  In  Yugoslavia's  other  republics,  however,  the  drop  reflected 
shortages  of  building  materials,  rising  construction  costs,  and  ad- 
ministrative problems  in  the  self-managed  housing  system. 

Yugoslavia's  housing  system  offered  two  methods  of  obtaining 
long-term  accommodations:  through  private  initiative,  using  bank, 
enterprise,  or  private  loans;  or  through  allocation  of  socially  owned 
apartments.  A  person's  chances  of  receiving  housing  loans  or  a  so- 
cially owned  apartment  generally  were  proportional  to  his  or  her 
social  standing. 

About  two-thirds  of  Yugoslavia's  housing  units  were  privately 
owned,  and  about  80  percent  of  housing  construction  was  done 
by  private  enterprise.  In  nearly  all  cases,  private  housing  construc- 
tion was  a  long-term,  pay-as-you-go  ordeal  involving  contribution 
of  significant  labor  by  the  homeowner.  The  outskirts  of  all  Yugo- 
slav cities  featured  rows  of  occupied  and  unoccupied  homes  at  var- 
ious stages  of  completion.  Private  housing  consisted  mostly  of  village 
houses,  private  apartments,  and  homes  built  on  the  periphery  of 
major  cities. 

Socially  owned  apartments  were  allocated  by  the  state  without 
investment  by  the  occupant;  rent  and  maintenance  payments  were 
nominal.  Although  apartments  were  technically  social  property, 
occupants  had  de  facto  property  rights.  Enterprises  deducted  funds 
for  social  apartments  from  the  general  employee  payroll;  thus,  all  em- 
ployees paid  for  socially  owned  housing,  whatever  type  of  housing 
they  occupied.  Apartment  allocation  was  based  on  a  complex  set 
of  criteria,  including  family  size,  work  seniority,  age,  and  position. 
The  wait  for  a  socially  owned  apartment  could  last  decades,  and 
bitter  disputes  arose  among  candidates  for  a  long-sought  apartment. 

Graft  was  endemic  in  the  Yugoslav  housing  system.  Partly  for 
this  reason,  workers  had  the  least  chance  of  obtaining  socially  owned 
housing,  while  professionals  and  members  of  the  bureaucracy  had 
the  greatest.  Reform  plans  for  the  early  1990s  called  for  occupants 
of  socially  owned  apartments  to  begin  buying  them  outright  by 
adding  a  monthly  principal  payment  to  their  maintenance  fees,  but 
in  1990  reforms  awaited  a  government  decision  on  redefinition  and 
distribution  of  social  property. 


103 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Urban  Problems 

Yugoslav  cities  grew  without  adequate  planning.  Regardless  of 
region,  people  with  tenure  in  socially  owned  apartments  lived  mostly 
in  the  city  centers,  while  privately  owned  homes  were  located  far- 
ther out.  The  chronic  housing  shortage  resulted  in  the  develop- 
ment of  sizable  unplanned  settlements  on  the  periphery  of  large 
cities.  These  settlements  often  lacked  paved  streets,  running  water, 
or  sewer  lines.  Gypsy  shantytowns  also  surrounded  many  urban 
areas.  City  inspectors  were  reluctant  to  evict  the  inhabitants  of  these 
areas  because  eviction  would  cause  a  public  outcry  and  appear  to 
be  discrimination  against  the  poor. 

Yugoslavia's  speedy  urbanization  brought  many  problems  as- 
sociated in  the  West  with  life  in  big  cities.  Drug  use,  although  still 
relatively  uncommon,  grew  steadily  in  the  1980s.  Drug  traffickers 
frequented  Yugoslavia's  main  roadways,  carrying  heroin  and  other 
drugs  to  Western  Europe  from  sources  in  the  Middle  East.  Some 
of  these  drugs  found  their  way  into  Yugoslavia's  drug  underground. 
Urban  treatment  facilities  registered  about  2,000  drug  addicts,  but 
the  total  number  of  drug  abusers  was  estimated  at  10,000  in  1988. 
The  Yugoslav  government's  antidrug  program  consisted  of  a  cam- 
paign to  interdict  drug  shipments,  treat  drug  abusers,  and  prevent 
drug  abuse. 

Guest  Workers 

Besides  urbanization,  a  second  important  migration  trend  in 
Yugoslav  society  after  World  War  II  was  the  emigration  of  Yugo- 
slav guest  workers  and  their  dependents.  The  departure  of  Yugo- 
slavs seeking  work  began  in  the  1950s,  when  individuals  began 
slipping  across  the  border  illegally.  Economic  expansion  in  Western 
Europe  in  the  1960s  created  a  demand  for  labor  that  domestic  labor 
supplies  could  not  fill;  at  the  same  time,  Yugoslav  industries  could 
not  absorb  all  the  workers  in  the  country's  labor  pool,  including 
educated  and  highly  skilled  individuals.  In  the  mid-1960s,  Yugo- 
slavia lifted  emigration  restrictions,  and  the  number  of  emigres 
increased  rapidly.  By  the  early  1970s,  Yugoslavia  had  Europe's 
second-highest  emigration  rate,  and  20  percent  of  the  country's 
labor  force  was  employed  abroad.  In  1973  about  1 . 1  million  work- 
ers and  dependents  were  living  and  working  outside  Yugoslavia's 
borders;  900,000  of  these  were  living  in  Western  Europe.  Re- 
strictions on  guest  workers  in  Western  Europe  curtailed  the  out- 
flow of  Yugoslavs  in  1973  and  1974,  and  the  somewhat  reduced 
movement  has  remained  steady  since.  In  1985  about  600,000 
Yugoslavs  were  working  abroad,  accompanied  by  about  400,000 


104 


Street  in  Kaludj erica,  a  town  of  Serbian  refugees  from  Kosovo,  near  Belgrade 

Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 

dependents.  In  1987  the  rate  of  permanent  return  to  Yugoslavia 
was  about  40,000  workers  per  year. 

In  the  early  1970s,  a  disproportionate  number  of  emigre  work- 
ers came  from  Yugoslavia's  economically  developed  northern  and 
western  regions,  including  Croatia,  Slovenia,  eastern  Vojvodina, 
and  northeastern  Serbia.  The  1981  census,  however,  showed  an 
increase  in  the  number  of  guest  workers  from  Serbia  proper,  Mon- 
tenegro, and  Kosovo.  Overall,  only  30.9  percent  of  emigre  work- 
ers came  from  cities  and  towns.  A  40  percent  drop  in  the  number 
of  reported  Croatian  guest  workers  caused  speculation  that  many 
Croats  were  adopting  permanent  foreign  residency. 

Higher  wages  in  West  European  countries  at  first  attracted  mostly 
city-dwelling,  mature  male  Yugoslav  workers  with  specific  job  skills. 
By  the  mid-1970s,  the  attraction  had  spread  to  peasants,  unskilled 
workers,  and  women  in  rural  areas.  In  the  1970s,  guest  workers 
were  more  likely  to  have  completed  elementary  school  and  voca-* 
tional  training  than  the  Yugoslav  population  as  a  whole.  The  out- 
flow of  skilled  workers  slowed  growth  in  a  variety  of  Yugoslav 
industries.  Hotels  and  restaurants  in  Yugoslav  resort  areas  often 
faced  seasonal  shortages  of  trained  caterers  and  waiters.  Waiters 
would  work  a  single  season  on  the  Dalmatian  coast  to  gain  experi- 
ence and  savings,  then  they  would  emigrate  to  Austria,  Switzerland, 


105 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

or  France.  Adriatic  hotels  usually  trained  a  new  staff  each  season; 
ironically,  some  employed  guest  workers  of  their  own  from  Poland 
and  Czechoslovakia. 

About  one- third  of  all  guest  workers  were  women,  a  proportion 
that  corresponded  to  their  share  in  Yugoslavia's  overall  domestic 
work  force.  But  striking  disparities  in  the  rates  at  which  women 
emigrated  from  Yugoslavia's  various  regions  reflected  the  influence 
of  the  country's  ethnic  diversity.  Slightly  more  than  40  percent  of 
all  emigrants  from  Vojvodina  and  Slovenia  were  women,  as  were 
over  a  third  of  those  from  Serbia  proper  and  Croatia.  Women  from 
Kosovo  emigrated  least,  accounting  for  less  than  5  percent  of  all 
emigres  from  that  region. 

Guest  workers  returned  to  Yugoslavia  not  only  for  economic  rea- 
sons but  also  because  of  emotional  connections  with  their  birth- 
place, family,  and  traditions  and  because  of  a  desire  by  parents 
to  educate  their  children  in  their  homeland.  With  the  reunifica- 
tion of  Germany  and  the  economic  downturn  created  by  the  Per- 
sian Gulf  crisis  of  1990,  Yugoslavia  faced  a  possible  large-scale 
return  of  guest  workers  from  Western  Europe.  Many  observers 
predicted  that  a  return  of  skilled  workers  would  have  a  positive 
effect  on  Yugoslavia's  economy.  The  1981  census  showed  that  the 
bulk  of  the  returning  guest  workers  (81.7  percent)  continued  to 
work;  only  3.2  percent  became  unemployed  officially.  Most  for- 
mer peasants  and  agricultural  workers  returned  from  abroad  to 
find  new  employment  in  nonagricultural  sectors  of  the  economy, 
indicating  that  they  had  acquired  other  skills  and  job  experience 
during  their  years  abroad.  Returning  guest  workers  unable  to  find 
work  were  entitled  to  some  unemployment  compensation  if  they 
paid  into  an  unemployment  compensation  fund  during  their  stay 
abroad.  Prior  to  German  reunification,  guest  workers  in  the  Fed- 
eral Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germany)  automatically  contribut- 
ed to  such  funds  in  accordance  with  a  bilateral  agreement. 

Religion 

Religious  affiliation  in  Yugoslavia  was  closely  linked  with  the 
politics  of  nationality;  centuries-old  animosities  among  the  coun- 
try's three  main  religions — Eastern  Orthodoxy,  Roman  Catholi- 
cism, and  Islam — remained  a  divisive  factor  in  1990.  Forced 
conversions  of  Orthodox  Serbs  to  Roman  Catholicism  by  ultra- 
nationalist  Croatian  priests  during  World  War  II  had  made  a  lasting 
impression;  more  recently,  Serbian  official  spokesmen  often  charac- 
terized Serbian  conflicts  with  Kosovan  nationalists  as  a  struggle 
between  Christianity  and  Islam.  Religious  tension  existed  even  in 
the  most  prosperous  regions:  in  the  1980s,  local  politicians  delayed 


106 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


construction  of  an  Orthodox  church  in  Split  and  a  mosque  in  Lju- 
bljana, both  predominantly  Roman  Catholic  cities. 

Demography  and  Distribution 

The  distribution  of  Yugoslavia's  major  religions  followed  the 
country's  internal  borders  only  roughly.  Serbia  and  Montenegro 
were  under  the  ecclesiastical  authority  of  the  Serbian  Orthodox 
Church.  Macedonia  had  its  own  Macedonian  Orthodox  Church 
after  1967,  but  that  republic  also  included  many  Muslim  ethnic 
Albanians.  Croatia  and  Slovenia  were  predominantly  Roman 
Catholic,  but  many  Orthodox  Serbs  also  lived  in  Croatia,  and  the 
Muslim  Slav  and  ethnic  Albanian  populations  of  Slovenia  were 
growing.  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  contained  Muslim  Slavs,  Ortho- 
dox Serbs,  and  Catholic  Croats.  Vojvodina  had  significant  numbers 
of  Eastern  Orthodox,  Roman  Catholic,  and  Protestant  believers; 
Kosovo  was  predominantly  Muslim,  although  about  10  percent  of 
the  province's  ethnic  Albanians  were  Roman  Catholic,  and  virtu- 
ally all  its  Serbs  were  Eastern  Orthodox  (see  fig.  8). 

Besides  Eastern  Orthodoxy,  Roman  Catholicism,  and  Islam, 
about  forty  other  religious  groups  were  represented  in  Yugosla- 
via. They  included  the  Jews,  Old  Catholic  Church,  Church  of  Je- 
sus Christ  of  the  Latter-Day  Saints,  Hare  Krishnas,  and  other 
eastern  religions.  Major  Protestant  groups  were  the  Calvinist 
Reformed  Church,  Evangelical  Church,  Baptist  Church,  Methodist 
Church,  Seventh-Day  Adventists,  Jehovah's  Witnesses,  and  Pen- 
tecostal Church  of  Christ. 

The  connection  between  religious  belief  and  nationality  posed 
a  special  threat  to  the  postwar  communist  government's  official 
policies  of  national  unity  and  a  federal  state  structure.  Although 
postwar  constitutions  provided  for  separation  of  church  and  state 
and  guaranteed  freedom  of  religion,  church- state  relations  in  the 
postwar  period  were  often  tense  when  the  government  attempted 
to  reduce  church  influence.  From  1945  to  the  early  1950s,  the 
authorities  carried  out  antichurch  campaigns  that  imprisoned,  tor- 
tured, and  killed  many  members  of  the  clergy.  The  government 
subsequently  established  a  general  policy  of  rapprochement,  but 
until  the  1980s  the  state  still  exerted  pressure  on  many  religious 
communities.  Yugoslavs  who  openly  practiced  a  religious  faith  often 
were  limited  to  low-paying,  low-status  jobs.  After  Tito's  death  in 
1980,  the  Yugoslav  government  no  longer  pursued  a  consistent  poli- 
cy toward  the  country's  churches.  After  that  time,  each  republic 
and  province  followed  policies  toward  religion  that  were  accepta- 
ble at  home  but  sometimes  unacceptable  in  other  parts  of  the 
country. 


107 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Political  liberalization  in  the  late  1980s  brought  Yugoslavia's  re- 
ligious communities  a  level  of  freedom  unprecedented  in  the  post- 
war period.  The  spring  of  1990  marked  the  beginning  of  a  religious 
revival  throughout  the  country.  On  Easter  1990,  television  stations 
throughout  the  country  covered  Eastern  Orthodox  and  Roman 
Catholic  services  for  the  first  time;  two  weeks  later,  Belgrade  tele- 
vision broadcast  prayers  marking  the  end  of  Ramadan,  the  Mus- 
lim holy  month.  With  the  rebirth  of  Western- style  democracy  in 
Yugoslavia,  fundamental  amendments  were  expected  in  laws  ban- 
ning church  involvement  in  politics,  education,  social  and  intereth- 
nic  affairs,  and  military  training. 

Religious  belief  declined  significantly  in  Yugoslavia  after  World 
War  II,  but  the  drop  was  not  uniform  throughout  the  country.  In 
the  censuses  of  1921  and  1948,  religious  believers  accounted  for 
over  99  percent  of  the  population.  Secularization  followed  closely 
the  postwar  government  programs  of  modernization,  urbanization, 
and  vigorous  antireligious  propaganda.  A  1964  survey  (Yugosla- 
via's last  nationwide  study  of  religion  through  1990)  described  70.3 
percent  of  Yugoslavs  as  religious  believers.  The  areas  with  the 
highest  percentage  of  religious  believers  were  Kosovo  (91  percent 
of  the  population)  and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  (83.8  percent);  those 
with  the  lowest  were  Slovenia  (65.4  percent),  Serbia  (63.7  percent), 
and  Croatia  (63.6  percent).  Although  hard  figures  were  not  avail- 
able, in  the  late  1980s  signs  indicated  a  resurgence  of  religious  be- 
lief, especially  among  young  people. 

Eastern  Orthodoxy 

Since  Byzantine  times,  the  Eastern  Orthodox  churches  have  had 
an  almost  symbiotic  connection  to  individual  nation- states  such  as 
Greece  and  Russia.  Yugoslavia  had  two  main  Orthodox  churches: 
the  Serbian  Orthodox  Church,  present  since  the  Middle  Ages,  and 
the  Macedonian  Orthodox  Church,  which  split  from  the  Serbian 
church  in  1967.  The  Romanian  Orthodox  Church  was  also  present 
in  Vojvodina.  An  estimated  11.5  million  Yugoslavs,  primarily 
Serbs,  Montenegrins,  and  Macedonians,  were  Eastern  Orthodox 
by  family  background. 

The  self-governing  Serbian  Orthodox  Church  was  founded  in 
the  thirteenth  century  by  St.  Sava  Nemanja,  brother  of  the  first 
Serbian  king.  In  the  centuries  after  its  founding,  the  church  served 
a  series  of  kings  and  emperors,  and  it  acted  as  the  repository  of 
Serbian  culture  during  the  centuries  of  Ottoman  domination 
(1459-1829).  The  Serbian  church  supported  the  Karadjordjevic 
Dynasty  that  ruled  the  Kingdom  of  Yugoslavia  between  the  world 
wars.  The  brutal  religious  persecution  of  Orthodox  priests  in  World 


108 


Examples  of  Yugoslav  religious  architecture 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


109 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

War  II  enhanced  the  church's  popular  standing  throughout  Ser- 
bia. After  the  war,  the  communist  regime  took  advantage  of  the 
Serbian  church's  loyal  support  of  the  Yugoslav  state  to  gain  legitima- 
cy in  the  eyes  of  the  Serbian  population.  But  the  church  soon  came 
into  direct  conflict  with  the  communist  regime's  policy  on  nation- 
alities and  lost  its  secular  role  and  influence.  One  result  of  this  con- 
flict was  the  refusal  of  the  Serbian  church  hierarchy  to  recognize 
the  Macedonian  Orthodox  Church,  given  self-governing  status  by 
the  Yugoslav  state  in  1967. 

In  1987  the  Serbian  Orthodox  Church,  headquartered  in  Bel- 
grade, included  about  2,000  parishes;  2,500  priests,  monks,  and 
nuns;  180  monasteries  and  convents;  four  seminaries;  and  one 
school  of  theology.  It  also  published  ten  periodicals.  The  Serbian 
church  was  very  active  in  defending  the  Serbian  and  Montenegrin 
minorities  in  Kosovo.  Following  the  upswing  of  ethnic  tensions  in 
Kosovo  in  the  1980s,  identification  as  an  Orthodox  churchgoer  be- 
came more  popular  in  Serbia.  In  1985  completion  of  the  long- 
delayed  Cathedral  of  St.  Sava  in  Belgrade  received  government 
approval.  When  finished,  the  cathedral  was  to  be  the  largest  Eastern 
Orthodox  church  in  the  world. 

At  various  times  before  World  War  I,  the  Eastern  Orthodox  di- 
ocese in  Macedonia  was  under  the  jurisdiction  of  Serbian,  Bulgar- 
ian, and  Greek  Orthodox  authorities.  Between  the  world  wars,  the 
Serbian  church  was  in  control.  Until  1958  the  Serbian,  Bulgari- 
an, and  Greek  Orthodox  hierarchies  recognized  no  distinct  Macedo- 
nian nation  or  independent  Macedonian  Orthodox  Church.  In 
1958,  however,  the  Serbian  Orthodox  hierarchy  recognized  the 
Macedonian  dioceses  by  consecrating  a  Macedonian  bishop.  Shortly 
thereafter  the  Macedonian  Orthodox  Church  came  into  official  ex- 
istence, but  it  remained  under  the  authority  of  the  Serbian  Ortho- 
dox Church.  In  1967  Macedonian  clergy  proclaimed  their  church 
independent,  prompting  the  Serbian  Orthodox  Church  to  refuse 
all  further  relations  with  it.  Aware  that  a  self-governing  Macedo- 
nian church  would  enhance  the  sense  of  Macedonian  nationhood 
within  the  Yugoslav  federation,  political  authorities  gave  the  church 
their  full  support.  Without  recognition  from  the  Serbian  hierar- 
chy, however,  the  Macedonian  church  remained  isolated  from  the 
world's  other  Eastern  Orthodox  churches.  By  the  mid-1980s,  the 
Macedonian  Orthodox  Church  had  six  dioceses  in  Yugoslavia  and 
two  abroad,  225  parishes,  102  monasteries,  about  250  priests  and 
about  15  monks,  and  one  school  of  theology. 

Roman  Catholicism 

The  Roman  Catholic  Church  was  Yugoslavia's  most  highly 


110 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


organized  religious  community.  About  7.5  million  Catholics — 
mainly  Croats,  Slovenes,  Hungarians,  and  ethnic  Albanians — lived 
in  Yugoslavia.  The  church  had  eight  archbishoprics,  13  bishoprics, 
2,702  parishes,  182  monasteries,  415  convents,  two  schools  of  the- 
ology, and  about  4,100  priests,  1,400  monks,  and  6,600  nuns.  It 
also  published  several  dozen  newspapers  and  periodicals  whose  com- 
bined circulation  far  surpassed  that  of  the  rest  of  the  country's  re- 
ligious press. 

The  Roman  Catholic  Church  had  uneasy  relations  with  Yugo- 
slavia's communist  regime  throughout  the  postwar  period.  This 
was  partly  because  its  hierarchy  was  loyal  to  Rome  and  partly  be- 
cause the  Catholics  supported  Croatian  nationalism  in  the  early 
1970s.  Many  Yugoslavs  retained  a  strong,  emotional  association 
between  Catholicism  and  the  war  crimes,  forced  conversions,  and 
deportations  by  the  Croatian  fascist  state  in  World  War  II. 

Soon  after  the  war,  the  government's  agrarian  reform  appropri- 
ated church  land.  Catholic  schools  were  closed,  and  formal  reli- 
gious instruction  was  discouraged.  Between  1945  and  1952,  many 
innocent  priests  were  shot  or  imprisoned  in  retribution  for  war- 
time atrocities.  The  arrest  and  1946  trial  of  Alojzije  Stepinac,  arch- 
bishop of  Zagreb,  led  to  the  low  point  of  Catholic- Yugoslav  relations 
in  1952.  At  that  point,  Tito  severed  relations  with  the  Vatican  in 
response  to  the  elevation  of  the  recently  released  Stepinac  to  cardi- 
nal. Stepinac,  tried  for  war  crimes,  had  actually  been  held  guilty 
of  refusing  to  adapt  the  Vatican's  stand  on  social  issues  such  as 
divorce  and  education  to  conform  with  the  secular  requirements 
of  the  communist  state  of  Yugoslavia.  Stepinac  also  had  enraged 
Tito  by  protesting  arbitrary  postwar  punishment  of  Catholic  cler- 
gy. After  Yugoslavia's  break  with  the  Soviet  Union  in  1948,  reli- 
gious repression  gradually  decreased  as  Tito  sought  the  approval 
of  the  West.  The  state-approved  funeral  and  burial  of  Stepinac  in 
1961  signaled  a  new  modus  vivendi  between  the  Yugoslav  govern- 
ment and  the  Roman  Catholic  Church  of  Yugoslavia. 

In  1966  Yugoslavia  and  the  Vatican  signed  a  protocol  in  which 
Belgrade  pledged  to  recognize  freedom  of  conscience  and  Rome's 
jurisdiction  over  ecclesiastical  and  spiritual  matters  for  Yugoslav 
Catholics.  In  return,  the  Vatican  agreed  to  honor  the  separation 
of  church  and  state  in  Yugoslavia,  including  prohibition  of  politi- 
cal activity  by  clergy.  In  1970  Yugoslavia  and  the  Vatican  resumed 
full  diplomatic  relations.  Nonetheless,  opportunities  for  conflict  re- 
mained. Franjo  Cardinal  Kuharic,  primate  of  Croatia,  touched  off 
a  major  controversy  in  Serbia  in  1981  by  proposing  rehabilitation 
of  Stepinac;  subsequent  appeals  for  canonization  of  the  cardinal 
met  strong  Serbian  resistance. 


Ill 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 
Islam 

Yugoslavia's  Islamic  community,  the  largest  in  any  European 
country  west  of  Turkey,  was  concentrated  among  three  ethnic 
groups:  Muslim  Slavs,  located  in  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  and 
Kosovo;  ethnic  Albanians,  primarily  in  Kosovo,  the  enclave  of  Novi 
Pazar  in  Serbia,  and  Macedonia;  and  Turks  inhabiting  the  same 
regions  as  the  Albanians.  Most  of  the  Muslim  Slavs  and  Albani- 
ans converted  to  Islam  in  the  early  stages  of  Ottoman  occupation 
to  gain  the  higher  social  status  that  Ottoman  policy  afforded  to  con- 
verts. They  were  the  only  groups  in  the  European  provinces  of  the 
Ottoman  Empire  to  convert  in  large  numbers. 

In  1930  Yugoslavia's  separate  Muslim  groups  united  under  the 
authority  of  a  single  ulama,  the  Rais-ul  Ulama,  who  enforced  Is- 
lamic religious  and  legal  dogma  and  managed  the  affairs  of  the  Is- 
lamic community.  Headquartered  in  Sarajevo,  Yugoslavia's  Islamic 
community  included  about  3,000  religious  leaders  and  3,000 
mosques  in  the  1980s.  Some  Yugoslav  Muslim  officials  studied  at 
Islamic  institutions  abroad.  Financial  contributions  from  Islamic 
countries  such  as  Libya  and  Saudi  Arabia  helped  fund  many  of 
the  800  mosques  constructed  in  Yugoslavia  after  World  War  II. 
In  1985  a  grand  mosque  was  opened  in  Zagreb  after  years  of  de- 
lay. The  only  Islamic  school  of  theology  in  Europe  was  located  in 
Sarajevo,  and  Islamic  secondary  schools  operated  in  Sarajevo, 
Skopje,  and  Pristina.  A  religious  school  for  women,  attached  to 
the  Islamic  secondary  school  in  Sarajevo,  had  a  capacity  of  sixty. 
The  Islamic  community  of  Yugoslavia  published  a  variety  of 
newspapers  and  periodicals. 

Relations  of  the  postwar  communist  government  with  the  Islamic 
community  were  less  troubled  than  those  with  the  Orthodox  or  Ro- 
man Catholic  churches.  Yugoslavia's  Islamic  leaders  generally  had 
kept  a  low  profile  during  World  War  II,  although  the  authorities 
condemned  the  mufti  of  Zagreb  to  death  for  allegedly  inciting  Mus- 
lims to  murder  Serbs.  In  the  1960s  and  1970s,  Tito  used  Yugosla- 
via's Islamic  community  to  maintain  friendly  relations  with 
oil-producing  Arab  countries  because  Yugoslavia  needed  access  to 
inexpensive  oil.  But  after  the  1979  fundamentalist  revolution  in 
Iran,  the  Yugoslav  government  reviewed  its  policy  on  potentially 
destabilizing  contacts  between  Yugoslav  Muslims  and  Middle 
Eastern  governments.  The  ulama  responded  by  disavowing  all  con- 
nection with  the  pan-Islamic  movement. 

Besides  mainstream  Sunni  Islam,  the  Yugoslav  Muslim  popu- 
lation also  included  several  small  groups  such  as  the  Bektashi  der- 
vishes. Founded  in  the  thirteenth  century,  the  Bektashi  sect  was 


112 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


one  of  the  official  religions  of  Kosovo  under  the  tolerant  policy  of 
the  Ottoman  Turks.  Its  practice  disregarded  much  of  traditional 
Islamic  ritual  and  contains  some  Christian  elements,  especially  in 
areas  where  Christianity  is  the  prevalent  religion.  After  Turkey 
dissolved  its  Bektashi  orders  in  1925,  the  sect  survived  only  in  the 
Balkans. 

Other  Faiths 

During  the  Protestant  Reformation,  a  number  of  Protestant  com- 
munities arose  in  regions  now  included  in  Yugoslavia.  Many  initial 
Protestant  conversions  were  later  reversed  in  the  Counterrefor- 
mation,  especially  in  Slovenia  and  Croatia.  The  most  notable 
exceptions  were  the  Calvinist  communities  of  Vojvodina.  The 
surviving  Calvinist  Reformed  Church  in  Vojvodina  was  mostly 
Hungarian  in  membership.  In  1987  it  had  forty-three  parishes, 
ninety-two  affiliated  offices,  about  sixty  churches  and  prayer  houses, 
and  over  forty  ministers  trained  at  theological  schools  in  Austria, 
Hungary,  and  Switzerland.  In  the  twentieth  century,  numerous 
Protestant  faiths,  including  newer  groups  such  as  the  Seventh-Day 
Adventists  and  Jehovah's  Witnesses,  also  found  a  foothold  in  Yu- 
goslavia. 

Much  of  Yugoslavia's  prewar  Jewish  community  was  destroyed 
in  the  Holocaust,  and  many  of  the  survivors  emigrated  to  Israel 
after  1948.  Yugoslavia's  1931  census  recorded  a  Jewish  popula- 
tion of  68,405.  By  contrast  only  6,835  persons  identified  themselves 
as  Jews  by  nationality  in  the  census  of  1948,  and  in  1981  the  num- 
ber of  Jews  had  shrunk  to  5,638.  The  remaining  Jewish  commu- 
nity was  organized  into  twenty-nine  communes  affiliated  with  the 
Belgrade-based  Federation  of  Jewish  Communities  of  Yugoslavia. 

Education 

History  of  Yugoslav  Education 

Primary  schooling  in  interwar  Yugoslavia  was  a  four- year  course. 
Although  enrollments  more  than  doubled  between  1919  and  1940, 
on  the  eve  of  World  War  II  only  about  27.3  percent  of  Yugoslav 
young  people  between  the  ages  of  five  and  twenty-four  were  en- 
rolled in  school  or  receiving  some  kind  of  instruction.  Only  about 
4  percent  of  the  pupils  who  completed  primary  school  went  on  to 
secondary  schools.  Muslim  parents  remained  suspicious  of  educa- 
tion for  women,  and  many  rural  areas  had  no  schools  at  all.  In 
the  late  1930s,  about  40  percent  of  the  population  over  ten  years 
of  age  was  illiterate.  Striking  regional  disparities  existed  in  levels 
of  literacy.  While  over  three-quarters  of  all  Slovenes  and  Croats 


113 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

could  read  and  write,  only  a  tenth  of  Kosovo's  ethnic  Albanians 
were  literate.  Yugoslavia's  interwar  education  system  was  highly 
centralized,  and  instruction  was  exclusively  in  Serbo-Croatian. 
Macedonians  and  Croats  especially  resented  Belgrade's  dominance 
of  education;  many  Croatian  teachers  enlisted  in  the  pro-Nazi 
Ustase  forces  during  the  war.  World  War  II  decimated  Yugosla- 
via's teacher  corps  and  heavily  damaged  its  education  facilities. 
In  1953  about  14.5  percent  of  the  active  nonagricultural  popula- 
tion had  not  finished  four  grades  of  elementary  school,  while  63.5 
percent  had  not  completed  the  eighth  grade. 

In  the  postwar  period,  the  Yugoslav  government  invested  heav- 
ily in  rebuilding  the  national  education  system.  Besides  building 
new  schools,  libraries,  and  other  facilities,  the  government  took 
energetic  steps  to  enhance  the  qualifications  of  Yugoslavia's  teaching 
cadres.  By  1989  the  majority  of  teachers  in  primary  and  secondary 
schools  held  university  degrees.  In  addition,  schools  began  employ- 
ing a  variety  of  teacher  aides  and  specialists,  including  librarians, 
media  specialists,  medical  personnel,  special-education  instructors, 
vocational-training  specialists,  and  computer  programmers — most 
of  whom  were  university  graduates.  Within  thirty  years  after  adop- 
tion, such  measures  radically  changed  the  educational  base  of  the 
Yugoslav  population.  By  1981  only  2.7  percent  of  the  active 
nonagricultural  population  had  less  than  three  years  of  primary 
school;  the  portion  that  had  completed  the  eighth  grade  had  risen 
to  81 . 1  percent;  and  58. 1  percent  of  that  group  had  at  least  a  high 
school  diploma.  Of  the  overall  population,  25.5  percent  had  com- 
pleted a  secondary  program,  and  24.2  had  completed  eight  years 
of  a  primary  program  (see  table  7,  Appendix). 

Primary  Schools 

A  1958  education  law  lengthened  the  country's  primary  educa- 
tion sequence  to  eight  years  and  made  attendance  compulsory  for 
children  from  seven  to  fifteen  years  of  age.  Between  1945  and  1981, 
elementary  school  enrollment  rose  from  40  percent  to  98.6  per- 
cent of  all  children  between  ages  seven  and  ten  and  92  percent  of 
those  between  eleven  and  fourteen.  In  the  same  period,  the  num- 
ber of  elementary  school  teachers  increased  more  than  fivefold,  and 
the  student-teacher  ratio  fell  from  59  to  1  to  20  to  1 .  Primary  edu- 
cation in  Yugoslavia's  less  developed  regions  improved  dramati- 
cally, and  instruction  in  the  languages  of  Yugoslavia's  ethnic 
minorities  increased.  In  Kosovo  the  number  of  primary  school  stu- 
dents rose  tenfold  between  the  end  of  World  War  II  and  1981.  In 
1986  the  student-teacher  ratio  for  primary  instruction  in  the 


114 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


languages  of  Yugoslavia's  ethnic  minorities  was  18.8  to  1,  better 
than  the  Yugoslav  average  overall. 

Secondary  Education 

Secondary  education  also  improved  noticeably  in  the  postwar 
decades.  Between  1947  and  1981,  the  number  of  students  in  second- 
ary and  postsecondary  schools  rose  more  than  sixfold,  and  by  1984 
more  than  90  percent  of  the  pupils  who  completed  primary  school 
continued  their  education  on  the  secondary  level.  In  1989  the  second- 
ary school  student-teacher  ratio  in  Yugoslavia  overall  reached  1 5 
to  1,  although  the  ratio  varied  by  region. 

A  comprehensive  curriculum  reform  in  1974  offered  students  a 
choice  of  postprimary  instruction  paths.  The  motivation  for  reform 
was  to  contribute  more  skilled  workers  to  Yugoslav  industry.  The 
reform  basically  combined  separate  college  preparatory  and  voca- 
tional schools  into  giant  standard  secondary  schools  in  which  the 
first  two  years  of  instruction  were  uniform  for  all  students.  In  the 
third  year,  students  were  expected  to  choose  a  general  career  path 
from  college  preparatory  and  vocational  options. 

Critics  complained  bitterly  that  the  new  curriculum  failed  to  pre- 
pare students  adequately  to  meet  the  country's  needs.  University 
officials  asserted  that  students  spent  too  much  time  in  vocational 
instruction;  enterprise  directors  complained  that  the  vocational  track 
still  did  not  prepare  enough  young  people  to  fill  skilled  jobs.  Crit- 
ics on  both  sides  called  for  a  return  to  completely  separate  four- 
year  college-preparatory  and  vocational  schools.  In  1990  another 
round  of  reforms  was  imminent,  but  Yugoslavia's  economic  woes 
delayed  funding.  Between  1977  and  1984,  spending  on  education 
had  already  fallen  from  5.9  percent  to  3.5  percent  of  total  national 
income. 

The  amount  of  secondary  school  instruction  conducted  in  minori- 
ty languages  rose  rapidly  after  World  War  II.  In  1945  only  4,233 
students  received  such  instruction;  in  1985-86  the  number  was 
85,892.  In  addition  to  Serbo-Croatian,  Slovenian,  and  Macedo- 
nian, secondary  school  instruction  was  conducted  in  Albanian,  Bul- 
garian, Czech,  Hungarian,  Italian,  Romanian,  Russian,  Slovak, 
Turkish,  and  Ukrainian  (see  table  8,  Appendix).  Government  offi- 
cials hoped  that  increasing  the  average  education  level  in  Kosovo 
would  reduce  future  population  growth  in  the  region.  According 
to  the  1981  census,  55.5  percent  of  Kosovo's  population  over  age 
fifteen  had  completed  elementary  school;  this  figure  was  only  5.2 
percent  in  1953.  In  1981  Slovenia  had  the  highest  literacy  rate  of 
the  republics  and  provinces  (99.2  percent),  and  Kosovo  had  the 
lowest  (82.4  percent)  (see  table  9,  Appendix). 


115 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Higher  Education 

Yugoslavia  also  made  significant  progress  in  university  educa- 
tion in  the  postwar  period.  Until  1987  the  system  was  available 
to  all  who  could  qualify.  At  that  time,  however,  fiscal  problems 
caused  a  cut  in  student  acceptance  by  7  percent,  and  course  offer- 
ings were  cut.  The  number  of  universities,  art  academies,  and  ad- 
vanced vocational  schools  rose  from  26  in  1939  to  322  in  1987, 
and  the  number  of  students  attending  them  increased  from  20,000 
to  347,000  in  the  same  period.  Higher  education  in  Yugoslavia 
also  faced  serious  problems  at  the  beginning  of  the  1990s.  Univer- 
sity dropout  rates  were  high,  and  students  who  remained  in  school 
took  an  average  of  seven  years  to  complete  a  four-year  degree 
and  five  years  to  finish  a  two-year  program.  High  tuition  and  liv- 
ing expenses  made  it  difficult  for  many  students  to  attend  full  time 
and  put  university  education  beyond  the  reach  of  other  Yugoslav 
families. 

Health  Care  and  Social  Welfare 

Before  World  War  II,  medical  care  in  Yugoslavia  was  generally 
very  poor.  The  country  had  only  one  physician  for  every  750  ur- 
ban residents;  in  rural  areas,  the  ratio  was  almost  twenty  times 
worse.  In  1990,  despite  overall  strides  in  the  nation's  health  care 
system,  a  wide  disparity  remained  between  urban  and  rural  areas 
in  the  delivery  of  health  care. 

Disease  and  Mortality 

The  most  frequent  causes  of  death  in  Yugoslavia  in  1984  were 
diseases  of  the  circulatory  system  (45.2  percent  of  total  deaths  for 
men  and  56  percent  for  women)  and  cancer  (16.1  percent  for  men 
and  13.3  percent  for  women).  Death  from  circulatory  diseases  was 
more  than  twice  as  likely  in  the  country's  developed  regions  as  in 
the  less  developed  areas,  while  in  Kosovo  the  share  of  infectious 
diseases  still  accounted  for  7.8  percent  of  male  deaths  and  10.1  per- 
cent of  female  deaths  in  the  1980s.  Increasing  environmental  pol- 
lution and  cigarette  smoking  possibly  were  reflected  in  a  steep 
increase  in  deaths  from  cancer  and  circulatory  problems  between 
1975  and  1986.  Accidents,  especially  traffic  accidents,  accounted 
for  41 .2  deaths  per  100,000  inhabitants,  while  the  suicide  rate  rose 
by  almost  a  quarter  between  1975  and  1989. 

Development  of  the  Health  Care  System 

Poor  nutrition  and  ignorance  of  hygiene  and  child  care  were  nor- 
mal conditions  in  Yugoslavia  before  World  War  II.  As  a  result, 


116 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


Yugoslavia  suffered  Europe's  highest  death  rate  from  tuberculo- 
sis; malaria,  diphtheria,  typhus,  syphilis,  dysentery,  and  whoop- 
ing cough  also  ravaged  the  country. 

After  World  War  II,  the  Yugoslav  state  took  direct  control  of 
the  country's  health  care  system  and  established  a  general  health 
insurance  program.  In  the  early  years  of  the  program,  coverage 
was  inconsistent  for  a  substantial  portion  of  the  population;  pri- 
vate farmers  and  their  families  were  not  covered  until  1959.  In  re- 
cent decades,  however,  improvements  in  health  care  and  the 
delivery  of  health  services  were  dramatic.  Overall  coverage  rose 
from  a  quarter  of  the  population  in  1952  to  over  80  percent  in  1984. 
The  number  of  physicians  rose  to  45,869  in  1987,  and  the  number 
of  hospital  beds  reached  142,427  (see  table  10,  Appendix).  In  1990 
the  system  included  about  280  hospitals.  Health  education  and  in- 
creased access  to  health  care  reduced  the  outbreak  of  infectious  dis- 
eases to  a  fraction  of  earlier  levels.  Diphtheria  was  eradicated 
completely;  the  incidence  of  typhus  fell  from  3,022  in  1955  to  160 
in  1986;  of  syphilis  from  7,248  to  300;  of  whooping  cough  from 
28,066  to  2,978;  and  of  tuberculosis  from  37,945  to  15,891. 
Maternity-related  deaths  and  birth-related  infant  deaths  also  plum- 
meted between  the  1950s  and  the  1980s. 

In  1987  farmers  and  farm  workers  used  health  care  facilities  about 
one-fourth  as  often  as  industrial  workers.  Job  openings  at  rural 
health  care  facilities  went  unfilled  despite  the  fact  that  few  jobs  for 
health  care  workers  existed  in  the  cities.  Between  1965  and  1970, 
one-third  of  all  medical  school  graduates  left  the  country  to  find 
work.  Disparities  in  health  care  between  Yugoslavia's  developed 
and  less  developed  regions  also  were  dramatic.  In  1983  Slovenia 
had  one  doctor  for  every  434  persons,  compared  with  one  per  1,141 
persons  in  Kosovo.  Likewise,  Slovenian  hospitals  had  one  bed  per 
128  persons  in  the  republic;  Kosovo  had  one  bed  per  334  persons. 
In  Slovenia  99.7  percent  of  all  births  took  place  with  professional 
medical  care;  in  Kosovo  professional  care  attended  only  60.5  per- 
cent of  births. 

The  Contemporary  Health  and  Welfare  Systems 

Yugoslavia's  1974  Constitution  requires  the  organization  of  self- 
managed  communities  of  interest  for  health  care  to  manage  the 
health  care  system  (see  Socialist  Self-Management,  ch.  3).  The  com- 
munities of  interest  represented  both  the  users  and  the  employees 
of  health  care  facilities.  Thus,  such  groups  included  delegates  from 
the  workers'  council  of  the  health  care  facility,  local  citizenry  served 
by  the  facility,  and  delegates  from  local  enterprises  contributing 
funds  to  the  facility.  Generally,  each  commune  had  a  health  center, 


117 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

although  cooperative  use  of  facilities  was  possible  through  agree- 
ments among  individual  communes.  Health  stations — less  equipped 
facilities  available  for  primary  first  aid — were  more  numerous.  In 
1988  health  centers  numbered  450,  health  stations  2,550. 

The  federal  Constitution  entitles  all  Yugoslav  citizens  to  health 
care  in  a  variety  of  situations.  Infectious  diseases  and  mental  ill- 
nesses judged  dangerous  to  society  received  automatic  treatment. 
Workers  were  guaranteed  care  for  occupational  diseases  or  work- 
related  injuries.  Pregnant  women,  infants,  and  preschoolers  received 
comprehensive  medical  care.  Children  younger  than  fifteen,  stu- 
dents younger  than  twenty- six,  and  citizens  over  sixty-five  were 
entitled  to  general  medical  care.  The  health  care  system  distribut- 
ed contraceptive  devices,  and  free  abortions  were  available  up  to 
ten  weeks  after  conception  or  later  under  special  circumstances. 
Federal  law  required  that  women  receive  uninterrupted  paid  mater- 
nity leave  beginning  at  least  28  days  before  expected  delivery  and 
ending  at  least  105  days  afterward.  By  1990  some  republics  had 
increased  minimum  maternity  leave  to  as  much  as  one  year.  Work- 
ing mothers  also  received  income  compensation  for  time  taken  from 
work  to  care  for  sick  children. 

Yugoslavia's  social  welfare  system  nominally  provided  services 
for  destitute  persons  and  families,  physically  and  mentally  han- 
dicapped persons,  broken  families,  alcoholics  and  drug  addicts,  and 
elderly  persons  without  relatives  to  care  for  them.  In  1986  about 
3  percent  of  the  population  received  services  from  the  social  wel- 
fare system.  In  1984  Yugoslavia  operated  340  social  work  centers, 
including  shelters,  juvenile  homes,  care  centers  for  handicapped 
children,  foster  home  placement  agencies,  nursing  homes,  and  fa- 
cilities for  care  of  the  mentally  handicapped  and  mentally  ill.  Al- 
together, the  system  employed  about  2,100  social  workers  and  1,000 
other  professionals  in  the  mid-1980s.  Self-managing  communities 
of  interest  managed  the  centers,  which  provided  services  to  687,000 
Yugoslavs  in  1984.  In  the  socialized  planning  of  the  postwar  peri- 
od, the  Yugoslav  education,  health,  and  social  welfare  systems 
reached  substantially  higher  standards.  The  average  citizen  benefit- 
ed from  these  improvements,  but  social  protection  and  opportuni- 
ty remained  unequally  dispensed  among  the  republics  in  1990. 

*    *  * 

Contrasts  in  Emerging  Societies,  edited  by  G.F.  Cushing  et  al.,  is 
an  anthology  of  primary-source  material  describing  socioeconom- 
ic conditions  in  southeastern  Europe  in  the  nineteenth  century.  It 
provides  an  excellent  glimpse  of  life  in  the  Yugoslav  lands  during 


118 


The  Society  and  Its  Environment 


that  period.  The  National  Question  in  Yugoslavia  by  Ivo  Banac  is  an 
exhaustive  treatment  of  the  disparate  Yugoslav  peoples  and  their 
relations  in  the  years  immediately  before  and  after  the  formation 
of  the  Yugoslav  state.  Steven  L.  Burg's  Conflict  and  Cohesion  in  So- 
cialist Yugoslavia  and  Pedro  Ramet's  Nationalism  and  Federalism  in 
Yugoslavia,  1963-1983  discuss  Yugoslavia's  national  question  in  later 
decades.  Stella  Alexander's  Church  and  State  in  Yugoslavia  since  1945 
describes  the  relations  between  the  postwar  communist  regime  and 
the  Serbian  Orthodox  and  Roman  Catholic  churches.  The  Yugo- 
slavs by  Dusko  Doder  is  an  insightful  and  entertaining  description 
of  the  virtues  and  foibles  of  the  Yugoslav  peoples  in  the  1970s.  Koso- 
vo: Past  and  Present,  edited  by  Ranko  Petkovic,  presents  an  official, 
pro-Serbian  assessment  of  the  Kosovo  problem,  while  Studies  on  Koso- 
va,  edited  by  Arshi  Pipa  and  Sami  Repishti,  presents  the  Albani- 
an side  of  the  conflict.  Jugoslavia,  1945-1985,  edited  by  Dusan 
Miljkovic,  contains  a  wealth  of  statistical  comparisons  of  socioeco- 
nomic indicators  for  the  Yugoslav  republics  that  a  non-reader  of 
Serbo-Croatian  can  easily  decipher  with  the  help  of  a  dictionary. 
(For  further  information  and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


119 


Woman  factory  worker 


AFTER  WORLD  WAR  II,  Yugoslavia  established  a  one-party 
communist  regime  and  an  economic  system  modeled  on  that  of 
the  Soviet  Union.  In  1948,  however,  the  Soviet-led  international 
communist  alliance  Cominform  (see  Glossary)  ousted  Yugoslavia 
and  imposed  an  economic  blockade.  At  this  time,  the  Yugoslav 
leadership  reevaluated  Marxist  doctrine  and  set  out  to  develop  a 
unique  system  of  economic  administration,  which  it  labeled  socialist 
self-management.  This  system  was  seen  as  a  more  accurate  reali- 
zation of  the  Marxist  theory  that  the  means  of  production  should 
be  owned  and  operated  by  the  people.  By  comparison,  Yugoslavs 
considered  the  Soviet  system  to  be  statist  because  the  Soviet  state 
had  simply  replaced  the  capitalists  of  the  West  in  exploiting  the 
worker  class. 

Under  the  strong  hand  of  Josef  Broz  Tito,  most  aspects  of  the 
Yugoslav  economy  prospered  from  1950  to  1979.  The  gross  material 
product  (GMP — see  Glossary)  rose  rapidly,  millions  of  peasants 
were  given  jobs  in  the  social  sector  (see  Glossary),  industrial  produc- 
tion expanded  rapidly,  and  export  of  manufactured  products  in- 
creased substantially.  Living  standards  also  improved  as  personal 
incomes  increased,  social  services  were  extended  and  improved, 
and  supplies  of  consumer  goods  expanded.  In  the  1960s,  Yugosla- 
via's market-economy  reforms  positioned  the  country  as  an  eco- 
nomic leader  of  the  Nonaligned  Movement. 

The  1980s,  however,  brought  a  grave  economic  crisis.  Begin- 
ning in  1979,  the  Yugoslav  economy  entered  an  extended  down- 
turn because  of  increases  in  oil  prices  in  1973  and  1979,  the  world 
recession  that  began  in  1979,  and  careless  investment  and  borrowing 
policies  pursued  in  Yugoslavia's  rapid  postwar  industrialization. 
Inflation  soared  out  of  control,  reaching  an  annual  rate  of  2,600 
percent  by  the  end  of  1989.  Personal  income,  consumption,  and 
labor  productivity  fell,  and  unemployment  exceeded  16  percent  by 
the  end  of  the  1980s.  These  problems  were  especially  serious  in 
the  poorer  regions  of  Yugoslavia  such  as  Macedonia  and  Kosovo. 
Foreign  loans  dried  up  at  the  same  time,  as  Yugoslavia  was  forced 
to  reschedule  its  US$20  billion  foreign  debt.  Patchwork  attempts 
to  solve  these  problems  generally  failed. 

In  January  1990,  the  government  of  Prime  Minister  Ante  Mar- 
kovic  introduced  a  reform  package.  This  program  included  mone- 
tary reforms  designed  to  combat  inflation  and  give  the  federal 
government  more  control  over  macroeconomic  policy.  It  drastically 


123 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

reformed  currency,  wage,  and  price  policy.  Despite  doubts  by  many 
domestic  and  foreign  economists  and  domestic  opposition  to  pain- 
ful austerity  measures,  the  Markovic  program  began  to  stabilize 
the  economy  in  the  first  six  months  of  1990.  The  new  program 
was  a  significant  break  with  the  decade  of  economic  policy  stagna- 
tion that  had  crippled  Yugoslavia's  growth  since  1979. 

Economic  History 
World  War  II  and  Recovery 

Before  World  War  II,  Yugoslavia  was  one  of  Europe's  most  un- 
derdeveloped countries.  The  eradication  of  feudalism  after  World 
War  I  left  over  75  percent  of  the  population  living  in  poverty  and 
dependent  on  small,  inefficient  peasant  farms.  Economic  growth, 
though  steady,  was  modest.  In  1938  per  capita  income  was  30  per- 
cent below  the  world  average. 

The  1941  German  invasion  of  Yugoslavia  and  the  subsequent 
partition  of  the  country  among  Germany,  Bulgaria,  Hungary,  and 
Italy  destroyed  all  semblance  of  normal  economic  life.  The  Ger- 
mans built  new  factories  in  Slovenia  and  Croatia  and  converted 
remaining  plants  to  produce  military  equipment.  The  peasants  con- 
tinued to  farm,  but  over  50  percent  of  livestock  and  80  percent 
of  equipment  were  destroyed  or  confiscated  during  the  occupation. 
The  communications  network  was  sabotaged,  and  over  half  the  rail- 
roads and  rolling  stock  was  demolished.  Inflation  was  rampant, 
and  barter  became  the  prime  means  for  transacting  business.  The 
most  devastating  blow  to  Yugoslavia  fell  on  its  people:  over  1 1  per- 
cent of  the  prewar  population  was  killed;  another  25  percent  was 
left  homeless. 

Postwar  reconstruction  in  Yugoslavia  was  financed  by  aid  from 
the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Rehabilitation  Administration.  The 
administration  provided  a  total  of  US$60  million  of  aid  in  food, 
clothing,  medical  supplies,  seed,  livestock,  jeeps,  and  railroad  stock. 
By  the  end  of  1946,  Yugoslav  national  income  was  restored  to  its 
1938  level. 

Application  of  Stalinist  Economics 

With  the  victory  of  Tito  and  the  People's  Front  in  November 
1945,  post- World  War  II  Yugoslavia  became  a  one-party  com- 
munist state.  The  Communist  Party  of  Yugoslavia  (CPY)  was  strict- 
ly Marxist- Leninist  in  economic  outlook  and  fiercely  loyal  to  the 
centralized  economic  program  of  Soviet  dictator  Joseph  V.  Stalin. 
Supporting  the  Soviet  Union's  foreign  policy  in  most  issues  and 
imitating  its  domestic  policy,  the  party  labeled  itself  the  vanguard 


124 


The  Economy 


of  the  proletariat.  Nationalization  of  industry,  redistribution  of  pri- 
vate land,  and  collectivization  of  agriculture  (see  Glossary)  were 
at  the  core  of  Yugoslav  domestic  economic  policy  as  the  1950s 
began. 

Under  the  land  reform  of  1945,  over  1  million  hectares  of  land 
were  confiscated  from  private  owners  and  institutions.  A  state- 
controlled  land  fund  was  established  to  hold  and  redistribute  the 
land  to  peasants  and  state  farms.  Local  authorities  set  the  exact 
amount  of  land  peasants  could  retain,  within  the  state  parameters 
of  twenty  to  thirty-five  hectares.  Despite  the  state  landholding  limits, 
a  large  share  of  agricultural  activity  remained  in  the  private  sec- 
tor. The  state  extracted  a  share,  however,  by  requiring  delivery 
of  surplus  products  to  state  enterprises. 

Following  the  example  of  the  Soviet  constitution  of  1936,  the 
Yugoslav  constitution  of  1946  initiated  the  process  of  bringing  all 
sectors  of  the  economy  under  state  control.  At  the  program's  in- 
ception, all  mineral  wealth,  power  resources,  means  of  communi- 
cation, and  foreign  trade  were  nationalized.  By  1948  all  domestic 
and  foreign-owned  capital,  excluding  some  retail  trade  and  small 
craft  industries  and  most  of  agriculture,  had  been  brought  into  the 
social  sector. 

Forced  collectivization  of  agriculture  was  instituted  in  January 
1949,  bringing  the  last  privately  owned  portion  of  the  economy 
under  state  control.  At  the  program's  inception,  94  percent  of  Yu- 
goslav agricultural  land  was  privately  owned;  but  by  the  height 
of  the  collectivization  drive  in  1950,  nearly  96  percent  was  under 
the  control  of  the  social  sector.  Yugoslav  planners  expected  that 
rapid  collectivization  and  mechanization  of  agriculture  would  in- 
crease food  production,  improve  the  people's  standard  of  living, 
and  release  peasants  to  work  in  industry.  The  result,  however,  was 
a  poorly  conceived  program  that  was  abandoned  three  years  later. 

The  First  Five-Year  Plan 

All  economic  activity  for  the  period  of  the  First  Five-Year  Plan 
(1947-52)  was  directiy  managed  by  the  Federal  Planning  Com- 
mission, which,  in  turn,  was  closely  supervised  by  the  party.  The 
objectives  of  the  plan  were  to  overcome  economic  and  technologi- 
cal backwardness,  strengthen  economic  and  military  power,  en- 
hance and  develop  the  socialist  sector  of  the  country,  increase  the 
people's  welfare,  and  narrow  the  gap  in  economic  development 
among  regions. 

Economic  development  in  the  first  half  of  the  planning  period 
was  relatively  successful;  from  January  1947  through  June  1949,  the 
plan  was  approximately  on  schedule.  Then,  in  late  1949,  agricultural 


125 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

and  industrial  development  began  to  fall  behind  planned  rates.  The 
targets  set  were  very  ambitious  and  did  not  take  into  account  Yu- 
goslavia's inadequate  power  resources  and  limited  range  of  in- 
digenous raw  materials.  Primarily  because  of  poor  investment 
policy,  agriculture  had  no  hope  of  reaching  its  target  of  52  percent 
growth  over  1939  levels.  Only  7  percent  of  total  investment  was 
earmarked  for  achieving  that  ambitious  goal.  The  rapid  industri- 
alization foreseen  in  the  plan  required  vast  imports  of  fuel,  food, 
and  raw  materials.  Because  Yugoslavia's  sparse  and  low-quality 
exports  could  not  finance  such  acquisitions,  it  was  forced  to  run 
a  large  trade  deficit,  most  of  which  was  financed  by  credits  and 
loans  from  Western  Europe  and  the  United  States. 

Following  Yugoslavia's  1948  ouster  from  the  Cominform  (Com- 
munist Information  Bureau — see  Glossary),  Cominform  members 
instituted  an  economic  boycott  against  the  country,  further  slow- 
ing Yugoslavia's  economic  growth.  Many  treaties  and  trade  agree- 
ments among  the  Soviet  Union,  Eastern  Europe,  and  Yugoslavia 
were  abrogated,  loans  were  canceled,  and  nearly  all  trade  was  halt- 
ed. In  1948  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Europe  made 
up  approximately  50  percent  of  Yugoslavia's  imports  and  exports, 
but  that  figure  was  reduced  to  zero  by  1950.  Yugoslavia  suffered 
doubly  in  the  many  instances  when  it  did  not  receive  goods,  par- 
ticularly machinery  and  capital  goods,  for  which  it  had  already  paid. 

However  disastrous  the  effects  of  the  Cominform  blockade,  Tito 
himself  estimated  that  it  accounted  for  less  than  20  percent  of  the 
damage  to  the  Yugoslav  economy  during  the  second  half  of  the 
First  Five- Year  Plan.  The  droughts  of  1950  and  1952  were  an  even 
greater  economic  disaster  than  the  boycott.  Another  formidable 
burden  was  the  need  to  divert  substantial  resources  to  rebuilding 
the  Yugoslav  military  and  arms  industry. 

By  the  end  of  the  First  Five- Year  Plan,  Yugoslavia  had  become 
acquainted  with  the  economic  problems  that  would  eventually  be- 
come chronic  in  the  1980s:  an  oversized  balance  of  payments  deficit, 
significant  foreign  debt,  low  labor  productivity,  and  inefficient  use 
of  capital.  But  the  comprehensive,  long-term,  centrally  directed 
planning  approach  was  able  to  mobilize  national  resources  to 
achieve  rapid  postwar  development  in  Yugoslavia.  Although  in- 
efficient, the  high  rate  of  investment  in  the  First  Five- Year  Plan 
ensured  increased  output  throughout  the  Second  Five-Year  Plan 
(1957-61).  From  1950  to  1960,  industrial  output  rose  faster  in  Yu- 
goslavia, in  both  per  capita  and  total  output,  than  in  almost  any 
other  country  in  the  world  over  the  same  period. 


126 


The  Economy 


Launching  Socialist  Self-Management 

The  aim  of  the  Yugoslav  shift  from  Stalinist  economics  was  to 
redefine  the  party  as  a  source  of  ideological  guidance,  eliminating 
its  political  power  over  the  economy.  This  would  follow  the  true 
spirit  of  Marxism  by  giving  the  people  control  over  their  econom- 
ic destiny.  "The  factories  to  the  workers"  was  the  slogan  of  the 
decade. 

In  1950  the  Basic  Law  on  the  Management  of  State  Economic 
Enterprises  by  Working  Collectives  was  introduced  to  establish 
workers'  participation  in  the  management  of  their  own  enterprises. 
The  basic  law  decentralized  planning,  turning  it  over  to  local  com- 
munes and  workers'  councils  and  incorporated  the  principles  of 
socialist,  or  workers',  self-management  into  all  aspects  of  public 
life.  Central  authorities  outlined  only  general  economic  guidelines 
rather  than  imposing  mandatory  targets  from  a  centralized  com- 
mand structure.  The  state  retained  control  over  the  appointment 
of  enterprise  directors  and  the  allocation  of  investment  resources, 
however,  thereby  retaining  considerable  de  facto  control  over  the 
economy. 

In  agriculture  the  failure  of  collectivization  led  to  abandonment 
of  that  experiment  in  1952.  By  that  date,  one-fifth  of  the  7,000 
agricultural  collectives  already  had  been  dissolved.  In  March  1953, 
peasants  were  officially  allowed  to  leave  the  collectives,  and  most 
of  them  did  so.  Later  the  same  year,  the  state  ended  compulsory 
delivery  of  agricultural  products  to  state  enterprises.  Peasants  were 
left  to  produce  what  they  could  and  to  sell  surpluses  on  the  open 
market. 

The  "Perspective"  Five-Year  Plan 

In  the  five  years  between  the  first  and  second  five-year  plans, 
the  Yugoslav  economy  followed  ad  hoc  annual  plans.  During  this 
interval,  a  high  rate  of  investment  and  savings  was  maintained. 
In  1957  the  government  introduced  the  Second  Five-Year  Plan, 
called  the  "Perspective  Plan"  because  its  stated  goals  were  not  strict- 
ly mandatory.  The  primary  purpose  of  this  plan  was  to  incorporate 
the  principles  of  socialist  self-management.  The  plan  specified  scope, 
expected  trends  in  demography  and  productivity,  volume  and  al- 
location of  investment,  and  increases  in  production  on  the  federal 
level.  But  enterprises,  communes,  and  republics  were  left  to  their 
own  devices  in  reaching  production  levels.  They  devised  their  own 
plans,  then  submitted  them  to  the  Federal  Planning  Commission. 
That  body  then  consulted  with  republic  planning  institutes  and  drew 
up  the  final  plan  according  to  federal  government  policies. 


127 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Yugoslav  economists  consider  the  Second  Five-Year  Plan  the 
most  effective  postwar  Yugoslav  economic  plan.  Its  achievements 
came,  however,  at  the  expense  of  negative  impact  on  the  interna- 
tional balance  of  payments,  uneven  domestic  investment  patterns 
(which  once  again  allocated  insufficient  investment  resources  to 
agriculture),  growing  unemployment,  inflation,  and  cash-flow 
problems.  Nonetheless,  fulfillment  of  the  plan  was  declared  ahead 
of  schedule  in  1960. 

Overhaul  in  the  1960s 

A  movement  toward  greater  market  freedom  in  Yugoslavia 
spurred  economic  reforms  in  the  1960s.  The  Third  Five-Year  Plan, 
begun  in  1961 ,  was  abandoned  the  next  year  because  of  a  growing 
economic  crisis  and  failure  to  meet  any  plan  targets  at  the  end  of 
the  first  year.  The  basic  goals  of  that  plan  were  to  increase  per- 
sonal consumption,  production  growth,  and  labor  productivity 
through  loosened  government  controls  on  wages  and  higher  invest- 
ment in  the  production  of  energy,  steel,  nonferrous  metals,  chem- 
icals, and  capital  equipment.  Particular  attention  went  to  investment 
in  the  less  developed  republics  and  to  mechanization  of  agriculture. 

Economic  planning  in  the  1960s  strove  to  make  Yugoslavia  more 
competitive  on  the  world  market  and  to  expose  the  economy  to 
the  beneficial  influence  of  free  international  trade.  A  more  liberal 
trade  policy  eliminated  multiple  exchange  rates,  devalued  the  di- 
nar (for  value  of  the  dinar — see  Glossary),  and  reduced  tariffs  and 
import  restrictions.  In  addition,  the  Yugoslav  tourist  industry 
received  government  support,  and  Yugoslavs  were  allowed  to  work 
as  guest  workers  abroad  (see  Guest  Workers,  ch.  2).  Hard-currency 
(see  Glossary)  remittances  from  tourism  and  guest  workers  became 
important  sources  of  relief  for  Yugoslavia's  weak  balance  of  pay- 
ments. Unfortunately,  these  changes  were  poorly  prepared  and  bad- 
ly implemented.  Not  long  after  the  Third  Five-Year  Plan  was 
abandoned  in  1962,  industrial  production  fell  to  half  its  1960  lev- 
el, imports  spiraled,  exports  stagnated,  and  inflation  increased  be- 
cause wages  increased  faster  than  productivity. 

After  the  Third  Five-Year  Plan  failed,  the  government  reverted 
to  a  system  of  ad  hoc  annual  plans  similar  to  those  implemented 
between  1952  and  1957.  Beginning  in  December  1962,  Yugosla- 
via's leading  economists  and  politicians  launched  a  two-year  se- 
ries of  debates  to  identify  and  correct  economic  flaws,  adjusting 
the  roles  of  the  federal  government,  enterprises,  planning,  and  the 
market  in  economic  growth  and  development  policy.  The  conser- 
vative minority  feared  that  decentralized  control  over  investment 
and  overemphasis  on  market  forces  would  lead  to  the  loss  of  socialist 


128 


Fifth  International  Technical  Exposition,  Belgrade,  1961 
Courtesy  Yugoslav  National  Tourist  Office,  New  York 

values.  Liberals,  however,  saw  decentralized  decision  making  and 
a  greater  role  for  market  forces  as  the  only  way  out  of  Yugosla- 
via's economic  stagnation. 

The  new  constitution  of  1963  introduced  market  socialism  (see 
Glossary),  a  system  that  basically  reflected  the  views  of  the  liber- 
als in  the  debates  of  1962  and  1963.  Decision  making  was  decen- 
tralized, market  forces  were  allowed  greater  play,  and  the  federal 
government  further  loosened  its  control  over  investment,  prices, 
and  incomes.  The  federal  government  was  only  to  intervene  with 
emergency  measures  in  times  of  crisis.  The  self-management  sys- 
tem thereby  received  more  power  and  responsibility  in  the  economic 
development  of  the  country. 

The  Economic  Reform  of  1965 

The  reform  of  July  1965  consisted  of  thirty  laws  that  formed  the 
legislative  framework  for  market  socialism.  An  important  goal  of 
this  framework  was  to  allow  enterprises  to  keep  a  larger  share  of 
their  earned  income,  much  of  which  was  previously  paid  to  the 
government.  The  five  major  components  of  the  reform  were  low- 
er taxes;  limited  state  control  of  investment  allocations;  removal 
of  price  controls  and  large  adjustments  to  product  prices,  to  bring 
domestic  prices  closer  to  world  price  levels;  devaluation  of  the  dinar 


129 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

and  reduction  of  customs  duties  and  export  subsidies;  and  permis- 
sion and  credit  for  peasant  landowners  to  buy  farm  machinery. 

Economic  performance  in  the  1950s  and  early  1960s  was  strong 
primarily  because  of  consistentiy  heavy  investment  policies.  Be- 
tween 1954  and  1965,  GMP  increased  by  an  average  of  8.4  per- 
cent per  year.  In  the  same  period,  gross  industrial  output  increased 
at  a  yearly  average  of  12.2  percent;  industrial  employment,  6.6 
percent;  social  sector  employment,  5.9  percent;  exports,  11.7  per- 
cent; and  fixed  investments,  9.2  percent  per  year.  In  the  mid-1960s, 
however,  these  rates  began  to  fall  because  the  1965  reform  caused 
excessive  demand  on  resources,  growing  inflation,  continuing 
balance  of  payments  problems,  and  expanded  unemployment.  From 
1965  to  1974,  average  annual  GMP  growth  dropped  to  6.4  per- 
cent, gross  industrial  output  to  7.7  percent,  industrial  employment 
to  3.3  percent,  social  sector  employment  to  2.9  percent,  exports 
to  5.6  percent,  and  fixed  investments  to  8.2  percent  per  year. 

Adjustments  in  the  1970s 

Yugoslavia  entered  the  1970s  in  an  economic  crisis.  Growth  was 
slowing  because  more  investment  was  needed  to  achieve  each  ad- 
ditional unit  of  growth.  At  34  percent,  Yugoslavia's  rate  of  infla- 
tion was  the  highest  in  Europe  in  1974,  and  the  government 
reimposed  the  price  controls  that  had  been  relaxed  under  the  1965 
reform.  Growing  unemployment  prompted  large  numbers  of  Yu- 
goslav workers  to  migrate  to  Western  Europe.  The  government 
wholeheartedly  supported  this  trend  because  the  hard-currency 
earnings  brought  into  Yugoslavia  by  the  guest  workers  mitigated 
the  effects  of  increased  foreign  debt  and  export  stagnation.  The 
disappointing  results  of  the  reform  and  nationalist  uprisings  in  Croa- 
tia and  Kosovo  between  1968  and  1972  led  Tito  to  end  the  market 
socialism  experiment  by  putting  economic  policy  making  back  under 
party  control  in  1974. 

The  new  Constitution  of  1974  and  the  Law  on  Associated  Labor 
of  1976  reorganized  the  economy  from  top  to  bottom.  Large  and 
medium-sized  enterprises  were  dissolved  into  smaller,  self-contained 
units  called  basic  organizations  of  associated  labor  (BOALs).  Un- 
der this  system,  workers  gained  more  control  over  management 
decisions,  banks,  and  social  services.  At  the  same  time,  Yugosla- 
via became  more  federalized  as  party  authority  was  decentralized 
to  republic  and  provincial  governments  and  local  communes  (see 
Political  Innovation  and  the  1974  Constitution,  ch.  4).  The  new 
statutes  introduced  a  system  of  self-management  agreements  to  coor- 
dinate interaction  among  basic  organizations  of  associated  labor 


130 


The  Economy 


and  social  compacts  to  coordinate  interaction  between  economic 
and  political  bodies. 

As  this  new  system  went  into  place,  the  economy  was  hit  by  a 
severe  increase  in  world  petroleum  prices.  Because  Yugoslavia  de- 
pended heavily  on  imported  petroleum  products,  this  development 
aggravated  existing  inflation  and  foreign  debt.  Nevertheless,  Yu- 
goslavia tried  to  overcome  its  balance  of  payments  problems  by 
placing  even  stronger  emphasis  on  output  growth,  increased  spend- 
ing (particularly  on  nonproductive  investment  and  consumption), 
and  foreign  borrowing.  The  result  was  a  dramatic  rise  in  foreign 
indebtedness  and  inflation  and  a  decline  in  living  standards.  When 
petroleum  prices  rose  again  in  1979  and  the  world  entered  an  eco- 
nomic recession,  Yugoslavia  could  no  longer  afford  to  maintain 
its  debt  burden.  Foreign  loans  became  inaccessible,  and  inflation 
continued  to  climb.  By  1980  these  conditions  clearly  called  for  slow- 
ing the  pace  of  development  and  adjusting  the  system  so  as  not 
to  jeopardize  future  growth. 

The  Economic  Management  Mechanism 
Socialist  Self-Management 

The  system  of  socialist  self-management  remained  the  distinc- 
tive element  of  the  Yugoslav  economy  in  1990.  Following  the  slo- 
gan "the  factories  to  the  workers,"  policy  makers  established  the 
system  in  the  1950s  as  a  way  of  transferring  economic  manage- 
ment from  the  state  to  the  workers.  The  organization  of  enterprises 
operating  under  socialist  self-management  was  elaborated  further 
in  the  1974  Constitution  and  the  Law  on  Associated  Labor  of  1976. 

The  original  self-management  concept  redesignated  enterprises 
as  work  organizations  of  associated  labor  and  divided  them  into 
smaller  units  at  the  level  of  factory  departments.  Each  smaller  unit, 
a  BOAL,  was  a  self-managed  entity,  financially  and  commercial- 
ly independent.  As  members  of  basic  organizations,  workers  had 
the  right  to  attend  general  meetings  and  elect  and  serve  on  work- 
ers' councils.  The  councils  were  elected  bodies  that  formulated 
business  policy  and  plans,  made  investment  and  borrowing  deci- 
sions, approved  enterprise  accounts,  and  gave  final  approval  to 
directors  and  management  boards.  Despite  these  extensive  nomi- 
nal powers,  however,  decisions  by  the  workers'  councils  were  heavily 
influenced  by  enterprise  directors,  who  were  appointed  by  the 
League  of  Communists  of  Yugoslavia  (LCY — see  Glossary),  as  the 
CPY  was  called  after  1952.  Only  one-third  of  the  committees 
nominating  enterprise  directors  could  come  from  the  councils;  the 
remainder  were  members  of  local  communes  and  trade  unions,  all 


131 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

still  controlled  by  the  LCY  in  1990.  In  the  final  step,  the  workers' 
council  chose  from  the  nominating  committee's  list  of  candidates, 
but  in  most  cases  the  list  contained  only  one  name  at  that  stage. 

Work  communities  were  developed  for  white-collar  clerical,  ad- 
ministrative, and  technical  workers  of  the  labor  organizations.  Also 
self-managed,  the  work  communities  resembled  the  BOALs  but 
provided  fewer  rights  and  responsibilities  to  their  members.  Self- 
managed  communities  of  interest  were  established  by  basic  organi- 
zations to  provide  transportation,  communications,  education,  and 
health  services  for  production  workers  (see  Health  Care  and  So- 
cial Welfare,  ch.  2).  Complex  organizations  of  associated  labor 
provided  vertical  and  horizontal  integration  to  improve  coopera- 
tion and  specialization  among  work  organizations  and  their  com- 
ponent units. 

Another  unique  element  of  the  Yugoslav  economic  system  was 
the  use  of  self-management  agreements  and  social  compacts.  Self- 
management  agreements  were  binding  contracts  among  self-manage- 
ment organizations  in  the  social  sector;  they  were  enforceable  in  court 
if  a  party  failed  to  fulfill  its  obligations.  The  contracts  provided 
for  allocation  among  the  member  organizations  of  joint  income  be- 
tween wages  and  investment  and  for  the  sharing  of  risks.  Social 
compacts  were  written  among  basic  organizations,  communities 
of  interest,  government  economic  agencies,  and  trade  unions.  They 
specified  criteria  for  income  distribution,  foreign  trade  relations, 
employment  policy,  and  ranking  of  priorities. 

Capital  Ownership  and  the  Market 

In  1990  most  enterprises,  government  institutions,  social  ser- 
vices, and  banks  operated  under  the  system  of  socialist  self- 
management.  All  institutions  employing  this  system  were  considered 
to  be  owned  by  society  and  not  by  the  state,  which  is  the  owner 
in  most  centrally  planned  economies.  In  spite  of  their  nominal  con- 
trol, however,  workers  had  no  rights  of  ownership  of  the  assets  they 
used. 

Agriculture  also  was  decentralized  in  the  1950s.  Forced  collec- 
tivization was  officially  abandoned  in  1952,  and  most  agricultural 
land  was  returned  to  small  peasant  farmers.  Small-farmer  agricul- 
ture dominated  Yugoslavia's  socialist  market  economy  through  the 
1980s.  In  1984  private  farmers  accounted  for  83  percent  of  tilled 
land,  84  percent  of  all  livestock,  and  72  percent  of  net  agricultural 
output  in  Yugoslavia. 

Throughout  the  postwar  period,  official  Yugoslav  policy  was  hostile 
to  private  enterprise,  or  the  "small  economy."  In  theory,  only  small 
entities  such  as  peasant  farms,  urban  artisans  and  tradesmen,  retail 


132 


Street  market,  Belgrade,  stocked  with  produce  from  private  farm  plots 

Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 

businesses,  restaurants,  and  tourist  facilities  were  permitted  in- 
dependent ownership  and  operation.  In  the  late  1980s,  many  promi- 
nent Yugoslav  economists  recommended  that  private  enterprise  be 
given  full  recognition  and  incentive  and  that  maximum  private 
ownership  of  land  be  increased  from  ten  to  thirty  hectares  These 
proposals  were  based  on  the  belief  that  the  entrepreneurial  spirit 
would  encourage  greater  efficiency  and  higher  productivity  in  an 
economy  long  hampered  by  the  political  constraints  of  government 
control. 

In  spite  of  Tito's  retrenchment  in  the  mid-1960s,  Yugoslavia 
moved  slowly  for  three  decades  toward  toleration  of  market  forces 
in  a  system  that  originally  attempted  to  operate  in  total  isolation 
Irom  the  world  economy.  This  trend  toward  market  liberalization 
however,  gradually  slowed  in  the  1970s  because  of  the  movement 
toward  federalism  and  the  introduction  of  the  social  compact  sys- 
tem in  the  1974  Constitution.  Consensual  by  definition,  social  com- 
pacts restricted  independent  decision  making,  which  in  turn  limited 
competition  among  basic  organizations  of  labor  in  communes  and 
republics.  Decentralization  of  economic  decision-making  power  to 
the  republic  level  prevented  enterprises  from  expanding  markets 
beyond  their  own  region;  by  the  late  1980s,  this  tendency  had 
weakened  the  market  system  significantly. 


133 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

In  January  1990,  Yugoslavia  began  a  new  stage  in  the  incorpo- 
ration of  a  Western- style  market  economy  into  the  system  of  work- 
ers' self-management.  According  to  the  1990  reforms,  enterprises 
were  to  operate  on  the  basis  of  profitability,  and  unprofitable  firms 
previously  protected  by  the  state  now  risked  bankruptcy.  Enter- 
prises critical  to  national  welfare,  such  as  steel,  energy,  and  defense- 
related  industries,  were  excepted  in  the  first  stage  of  the  reform. 
Although  most  enterprises  remained  in  the  social  sector,  the  1990 
program  allowed  workers  to  become  shareholders  in  their  firms  and 
legalized  worker  strikes.  Strikes  had  been  tolerated  in  the  late  1980s, 
but  their  legality  had  never  been  established.  Some  economic  ex- 
perts predicted  that  by  the  time  all  the  1990  reforms  were  in  place, 
the  Yugoslav  economy  would  differ  from  Western  capitalism  only 
in  the  larger  proportion  of  state-owned  enterprises  in  Yugoslavia. 
In  1990  the  estimated  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glossary) 
was  US$120.1  billion,  or  US$5,040  per  capita. 

Planning  and  Pricing 

In  1990  the  Yugoslav  economy  ostensibly  operated  on  a  new  sys- 
tem of  economic  planning.  Throughout  the  1960s  and  the  early 
1970s,  planning  was  "indicative":  federal  authorities  handed  down 
plans  with  detailed,  specific  goals  to  be  achieved,  with  little  input 
from  below.  In  1976  a  radically  new  system  of  voluntary  planning, 
called  "social  planning,"  was  established.  Plans  of  five  years  or 
longer  were  formulated  from  the  bottom  up,  with  the  participa- 
tion and  agreement  of  all  parties  concerned. 

The  planning  process  started  when  federal  authorities  announced 
the  timetable  for  the  overall  plan  and  major  intermediate  goals. 
Following  the  general  government  program,  enterprises  and  their 
subordinate  organizations  drew  up  microplans,  while  macroplans 
were  formulated  within  and  among  all  the  local  governments  and 
self-managed  communities  of  interest.  This  was  done  simultane- 
ously at  all  levels  without  any  hierarchical  approval  system.  In- 
dividual plans  were  modified  through  discussion  with  all  parties 
concerned;  the  result  was  then  written  into  binding  social  contracts. 
Enterprises  and  other  bodies  constructed  self-management  agree- 
ments that  addressed  specific  aspects  of  the  plan,  such  as  the  sup- 
ply of  materials  and  the  amount  of  new  capacity  required.  Annual 
assessments  and  adjustments  provided  adaptability  to  changing  con- 
ditions. The  Yugoslav  economy's  dependence  on  imported  tech- 
nical equipment  for  growth  meant  that  changing  world  markets 
often  made  such  adjustments  necessary. 

The  consensual  approach  to  planning  proved  ineffective  in  Yu- 
goslavia. It  was  time  consuming  and,  because  social  compacts  were 


134 


The  Economy 


voluntary  and  therefore  unenforceable,  plans  were  largely  ignored 
except  in  rare  instances  of  federal  government  intervention.  Ex- 
treme decentralization  of  planning  also  meant  that  cooperative 
projects  among  republics  and  provinces  were  not  well  coordinat- 
ed. This  inefficiency  particularly  hindered  development  of  national 
solutions  for  maintaining  the  energy  balance  and  distributing  for- 
eign exchange. 

Until  the  1960s,  price  controls  were  set  at  particular  points  in 
the  chain  of  production.  Such  control  points  were  the  initial  sale 
of  a  raw  material  and  the  release  of  a  final  product  for  sale  on  the 
retail  market.  Intermediate  prices  were  determined  by  supply  and 
demand.  This  combined  pricing  system  worked  fairly  well  to  moder- 
ate inflation  until  many  price  controls  were  removed  in  1964.  By 
the  late  1980s,  pricing  again  was  moving  distinctiy  toward  free  mar- 
ket determination.  The  1990  reforms  removed  price  controls  on 
85  percent  of  all  commodities.  Price  controls  remained  only  on  es- 
sentials such  as  electricity,  gasoline,  oil,  coal,  some  raw  metals  and 
nonmetal  minerals,  medicines,  and  railroad,  postal,  and  telephone 
services. 

Trade  Unions 

In  the  1980s,  membership  in  trade  unions  was  officially  volun- 
tary, but  most  workers  were  members  and  had  dues  deducted  direct- 
ly from  their  pay.  Trade  union  officials  usually  were  LCY  members 
and,  because  the  self-management  system  had  no  evident  division 
between  employers  and  employees,  officials  had  relatively  little 
responsibility.  Their  one  official  function  was  to  nominate  mem- 
bers of  workers'  councils  (see  Trade  Unions,  ch.  4). 

Before  1990,  strikes,  or  "work  stoppages"  as  they  were  eu- 
phemistically called,  officially  were  neither  legal  nor  illegal.  The 
idea  of  a  strike  in  a  self-management  system  was  theoretically  con- 
tradictory, because  technically  workers  would  be  striking  against 
themselves.  Hence,  Yugoslav  work  stoppages  took  the  form  of  po- 
litical protest  against  the  system  rather  than  conflict  between  em- 
ployer and  employees.  The  reforms  introduced  in  January  1990 
officially  declared  the  workers'  right  to  strike. 

Strikes  were  relatively  rare  until  the  late  1970s,  when  soaring 
inflation  and  falling  personal  incomes  generated  widespread  dis- 
content. In  1987,  1988,  and  1989,  government-imposed  income 
freezes  set  off  waves  of  major  strikes,  each  lasting  several  weeks. 
In  the  first  nine  months  of  1987  alone,  1,000  strikes  were  called, 
involving  over  150,000  workers.  The  1989  strikes  involved  over 
900,000  workers.  Demands  almost  always  included  higher  pay  and 
often  the  replacement  of  management  as  well. 


135 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Traditionally,  trade  union  officials  opposed  strikes;  but  in  the 
late  1980s  they  modified  this  stand.  In  1985  some  union  leaders 
broke  tradition  by  suggesting  that  when  workers'  demands  were 
justified  and  no  other  solution  existed,  the  trade  union  should  take 
the  lead  in  organizing  a  strike.  As  of  early  1990,  no  union  had  taken 
such  action,  however,  and  many  union  officials  remained  on  record 
as  opposing  strikes. 

Government  Revenue  and  Spending 

Most  federal  revenue  was  collected  in  the  form  of  turnover  tax- 
es and  assessments  by  local  and  federal  self-management  commu- 
nities of  interest,  which  had  financial  management  responsibility 
for  social  services  such  as  education,  health,  and  pensions.  Because 
a  large  portion  of  the  national  budget  was  committed  to  social  ser- 
vices, levies  by  the  communities  of  interest  were  an  important  part 
of  the  tax  structure.  The  republics  and  provinces  and  the  communes 
also  levied  taxes;  their  main  revenue  sources  were  the  same  as  those 
of  the  federal  government,  but  they  also  taxed  income  and  per- 
sonal property.  The  last  two  categories  provided  little  income  be- 
cause the  minimum  income  level  on  which  income  tax  was  collected 
was  very  high.  Personal  property  taxes  were  collected  mostly  on 
private  homes  (see  Housing,  ch.  2).  Peasants  and  private  businesses 
were  taxed  on  assessed  incomes,  often  at  very  high  rates  that  dis- 
couraged individual  economic  initiative.  Constitutional  reform 
aimed  at  restructuring  the  tax  system  to  eliminate  such  restrictions. 

In  1987  the  government  purchased  41  percent  of  Yugoslavia's 
GMP  through  large  expenditures  on  defense,  government  ad- 
ministration, and  social  services  (see  table  11,  Appendix).  So- 
cial services  received  an  unusually  large  allotment  for  a  country  of 
Yugoslavia's  modest  resources.  Defense  took  about  46  percent  of 
federal  outlays  budgeted  for  1990  because  of  Yugoslavia's  policy 
of  maintaining  security  and  integrity  as  a  nonaligned  state  (see 
Threat  Perception;  Military  Budget,  ch.  5).  Other  major  federal 
expenditure  categories  were  education  and  aid  to  underdeveloped 
regions. 

The  1974  Constitution  virtually  eliminated  direct  federal  expen- 
ditures on  investment.  Partly  for  this  reason,  in  1990  the  federal 
government  accounted  for  only  one-quarter  of  total  government 
spending  in  Yugoslavia.  The  remainder  was  disbursed  by  authori- 
ties at  the  republic  or  commune  level. 

Banking 

The  banking  sector  was  crucial  to  Yugoslavia's  efforts  to  con- 
strain domestic  demand,  to  shift  resources  toward  export-producing 


136 


The  Economy 


sectors,  and  to  increase  investment  efficiency.  Laws  introduced  in 
1985  effectively  created  a  new  banking  system  and  sought  to  bol- 
ster financial  discipline,  improve  investment  selection,  and  strength- 
en the  commercial  banks. 

Almost  all  financial  assets  and  savings  in  Yugoslavia  were  held 
in  banks  or  kept  in  cash  in  the  form  of  dinars  or  foreign  currency. 
The  financial  institutions  within  Yugoslavia  included  the  central 
banking  system,  which  consisted  of  the  National  Bank  of  Yugo- 
slavia and  the  national  banks  of  the  six  republics  and  two  autono- 
mous provinces;  the  commercial  banking  system,  including  166 
basic  banks  and  9  associated  banks;  and  other  financial  institutions 
such  as  internal  banks  and  the  Yugoslav  Bank  for  International 
Economic  Cooperation  (YBIEC). 

The  central  banking  system  was  responsible  for  planning  and 
implementing  monetary  policies.  But  in  the  1970s,  the  federalized 
status  of  the  National  Bank  of  Yugoslavia  limited  its  control  over 
the  commercial  banks  and  made  it  relatively  powerless  to  carry  out 
national  monetary  policy.  Because  the  credit  policies  of  commer- 
cial banks  were  relatively  unchecked  and  because  they  were  or- 
ganized on  a  republic  basis,  those  banks  were  very  powerful  in 
maintaining  the  serious  imbalance  of  investment  and  development 
among  the  regions  of  Yugoslavia.  The  reforms  of  January  1990, 
however,  gave  the  National  Bank  of  Yugoslavia  more  control  over 
the  operations  and  policies  of  commercial  banks. 

Day-to-day  commercial  banking  activities  were  carried  on  by 
the  self-managed  business  or  basic  banks.  They  were  local  or  region- 
al organizations  that  were  nominally  controlled  by  their  founding 
local  enterprises  or  communities  of  interest.  In  reality,  because  bank 
managers  were  politically  appointed,  they  were  heavily  influenced 
by  local  party  and  government  organizations.  Two  or  more  basic 
banks  could  form  an  associated  bank  through  a  self-management 
agreement.  The  major  functions  of  associated  banks  were  to  pool 
resources  and  handle  foreign  exchange  operations  on  behalf  of  their 
member  basic  banks. 

Banks,  enterprises,  and  other  financial  organizations  were  au- 
dited by  the  Social  Accounting  Service.  All  banks  were  required 
to  be  members  of  the  Yugoslav  Banking  Association  (YBA).  The 
function  of  the  YBA  was  to  initiate  and  organize  cooperation  among 
member  banks  through  self-management  agreements.  A  typical 
agreement  of  this  type  established  uniform  interest  rates  on  deposits 
for  all  Yugoslav  savings  banks. 

Internal  banks  were  financial  service  organizations  established 
through  self-management  agreements  among  basic  organizations 
of  associated  labor.  Not  considered  financial  institutions  per  se  and 


137 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

not  subject  to  monetary  regulation,  internal  banks  were  important 
as  a  cooperative  source  of  funding  to  facilitate  investment  of  their 
member  basic  organizations.  Only  member  basic  organizations  and 
their  workers  were  allowed  to  deposit  in  internal  banks. 

The  YBIEC  was  established  in  1979  to  provide  financial  sup- 
port for  foreign  transactions.  Owned  by  over  300  major  capital 
goods  and  services  exporters,  the  YBIEC 's  main  responsibility  was 
to  extend  export  credit  and  insurance  to  exporters  and  joint  ven- 
tures. In  1989  a  new  law  transformed  the  organization  into  a  joint 
stock  company  and  expanded  its  ownership  to  include  state  and 
banking  institutions.  The  YBIEC  received  funding  from  its  mem- 
bers, basic  and  associated  banks,  the  National  Bank  of  Yugosla- 
via, and  foreign  borrowing  and  issue  of  securities. 

Structure  of  the  Economy 
Labor  and  Unemployment 

Unemployment  was  a  major  problem  for  Yugoslavia  in  the  late 
1980s.  During  that  period,  over  875,000  Yugoslavs  worked  abroad, 
and  up  to  25  percent  of  the  workers  employed  in  the  productive 
social  sector  at  home  were  classified  as  surplus  labor;  nevertheless, 
more  than  1.2  million  people  were  registered  as  unemployed  in 
1988.  This  was  about  one-sixth  of  the  total  working-age  popula- 
tion of  Yugoslavia  that  year. 

Yugoslav  unemployment  statistics  were  based  on  the  number 
of  people  who  registered  with  the  government  as  job  seekers  in  the 
social  sector.  Several  factors  caused  inaccuracies  in  such  figures, 
however.  Students  often  registered  as  job  seekers  in  order  to  receive 
better  health  benefits;  many  workers  registered  if  they  were  seek- 
ing a  job  better  than  the  one  already  held;  and  some  of  the  unem- 
ployed did  not  register  because  they  saw  no  prospect  of  getting  a  job. 

Because  unprofitable  Yugoslav  enterprises  often  were  support- 
ed by  the  government  and  prevented  from  going  into  bankruptcy, 
workers  in  the  social  sector  rarely  lost  their  jobs  before  the  reforms 
of  1990.  Therefore,  a  large  proportion  of  job  seekers  in  the  1980s 
were  young  people.  In  1988  over  92  percent  of  the  unemployed 
were  under  age  forty,  and  nearly  57  percent  were  under  age  thirty. 
Yugoslav  unemployment  also  tended  to  be  long  term:  according 
to  official  statistics  for  1988,  although  almost  one-quarter  of  the 
unemployed  were  able  to  find  work  in  less  than  six  months,  almost 
62  percent  were  without  a  job  for  over  one  year,  many  for  more 
than  three  years.  A  third  characteristic  of  Yugoslav  unemployment 
was  the  large  regional  difference  in  unemployment  rates.  In  1986 
Slovenia  was  at  virtually  full  employment  while  the  underdeveloped 


138 


The  Economy 


province  of  Kosovo  had  more  than  one  job  seeker  for  every  two 
workers  employed  in  the  social  sector. 

Several  factors  interacted  to  raise  unemployment  in  Yugoslavia 
in  the  1980s.  Immediately  after  World  War  II,  peasants  made  up 
about  four-fifths  of  the  population.  Rural  workers  increasingly  were 
forced  into  the  cities  to  seek  jobs,  better  health  care,  improved  earn- 
ing potential,  and  pensions.  Two  government  policies  stimulated 
this  movement.  Following  traditional  Marxist  development  pat- 
terns, Yugoslavia  concentrated  investments  in  heavy  industry, 
directing  capital  away  from  agriculture  and  further  impoverish- 
ing the  peasants.  And  the  policy  of  discouraging  nonfarm  private 
business  eliminated  a  potential  alternative  economic  activity. 
Marxist  ideology  obliged  social  sector  enterprises  to  absorb  extra 
labor,  even  if  it  meant  redundancy  and  decreases  in  labor  produc- 
tivity. Between  1975  and  1988,  labor  distribution  remained  rela- 
tively stable  among  the  major  enterprise  categories  (see  table  12, 
Appendix) . 

The  economic  reforms  of  the  1960s  gave  market  forces  more  in- 
fluence in  enterprise  management  decisions,  which  helped  eliminate 
excess  labor.  Fortunately  for  Yugoslavia,  at  this  time  several  West 
European  countries  required  imported  labor;  Yugoslav  workers 
were  encouraged  to  leave  the  country  for  temporary  jobs  in  Western 
Europe.  Then  the  oil  price  shock  and  worldwide  recession  begin- 
ning in  1979  dropped  labor  demand  in  Western  Europe  and  forced 
many  Yugoslav  guest  workers  to  return  home.  Domestic  enterprises 
returned  to  conditions  of  surplus  labor  and  low  productivity.  By 
the  late  1980s,  however,  the  guest  worker  force  was  again  contribut- 
ing substantial  amounts  of  hard  currency  to  the  Yugoslav  economy. 

In  the  late  1980s,  measures  such  as  improved  health  care  and 
pensions  attempted  to  raise  the  rural  standard  of  living  and  draw 
some  of  the  unemployed  out  of  the  cities;  but  in  1990  prospects 
for  stemming  unemployment  still  seemed  poor.  The  primary  goal 
of  the  1990  economic  reforms  was  to  reduce  Yugoslavia's  run- 
away inflation.  But  the  new  anti-inflation  policies  aggravated  the 
unemployment  problem,  even  as  they  improved  labor  productivi- 
ty (see  The  Reforms  of  1990,  this  ch.). 

Industry 

After  World  War  II,  Yugoslav  development  policy  emphasized 
growth  in  the  industrial  sector.  All  means  of  production  were  com- 
pletely nationalized  and  remained  so  through  1990.  The  high  rate  of 
investment  in  industry  in  the  First  Five-Year  Plan  followed  the  slo- 
gan "heavy  industry  at  any  cost."  The  cost  was  a  serious  imbalance 


139 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

in  economic  development  that  the  Yugoslav  government  was  still 
trying  to  rectify  in  1990  (see  fig.  9). 

Postwar  Policy 

Between  1949  and  the  late  1970s,  the  fastest  growing  industrial 
branches  were  oil  and  gas  extraction  and  refining  and  manufac- 
ture of  machinery  for  electric  power  generation,  transport  equip- 
ment, chemicals,  and  electric  power.  These  branches  received  high 
priority  because  their  production  levels  were  very  low  at  the  end 
of  World  War  II.  Other  priority  branches  that  were  already  better 
developed  in  the  late  1940s — such  as  mining  of  coal  and  ferrous 
and  nonferrous  metals — expanded  output  significantly,  but  growth 
rates  were  considerably  lower  than  those  of  the  top-priority  indus- 
tries. Several  nonpriority  branches,  such  as  furniture,  paper,  raw 
materials  for  construction,  and  the  traditional  food  and  beverage 
industries,  expanded  faster  than  the  overall  industrial  average  (see 
table  13,  Appendix). 

After  the  war,  industry  was  concentrated  in  the  traditional 
manufacturing  regions  of  northern  Yugoslavia.  Beginning  in  1961 , 
industrial  policy  stressed  locating  new  manufacturing  facilities  closer 
to  sources  of  raw  materials.  This  meant  greater  national  invest- 
ment in  the  underdeveloped  economies  of  Montenegro  and 
Macedonia,  which  in  turn  caused  discontent  in  Slovenia  and  Croa- 
tia, the  much  richer  northern  republics  required  to  contribute  large 
shares  to  the  national  investment  program  (see  Regional  Dispari- 
ties, this  ch.). 

The  Fifth  Five-Year  Plan  (1976-80)  promoted  primary  produc- 
tion: development  in  all  energy-producing  sectors  accelerated,  and 
domestic  oil  and  gas  exploration  was  intensified  to  reduce  Yugo- 
slavia's dependence  on  imported  fuels  and  minimize  the  effect  of 
the  oil  crises  of  the  1970s.  This  step  was  also  a  prerequisite  for  fur- 
ther growth  in  industries  with  high  energy  consumption  such  as 
iron  and  steel,  nonferrous  metallurgy,  and  chemicals.  In  the  late 
1970s,  a  renewed  commitment  to  self-sufficiency  in  ferrous  and  non- 
ferrous  metallurgy  was  based  on  exploitation  and  processing  of 
domestic  raw  materials.  Greater  attention  also  went  to  machine- 
building  industries  that  produced  capital  equipment  necessary  for 
the  development  of  heavy  industry. 

The  Sixth  Five- Year  Plan  (1981-85)  continued  the  industrial 
strategy  of  the  previous  plan.  Priority  industries  for  investment  were 
metallurgy,  base  chemicals,  and  machinery.  At  the  same  time,  the 
plan  limited  expansion  of  production  facilities  in  other  manufac- 
turing industries. 


140 


The  Economy 


Shipbuilding 

In  1987  Yugoslavia  ranked  third  in  the  world  in  shipbuilding. 
Construction  and  repair  of  ships  contributed  heavily  to  the  domestic 
economy  by  bringing  in  hard  currency.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  ship- 
building industry  was  the  only  Yugoslav  industry  exporting  more 
than  half  its  output;  in  1987  thirty-seven  of  forty-three  ships  built 
in  Yugoslav  shipyards  were  sent  abroad.  The  ninety  ships  planned 
for  export  between  1986  and  1990  were  to  earn  about  US$2  bil- 
lion. Seagoing,  rivergoing,  fishing,  and  engineering  ships  went  to 
Liberia,  the  Soviet  Union,  Czechoslovakia,  Norway,  Finland,  and 
Sweden.  Receiving  countries  used  Yugoslav  ships  for  a  variety  of 
purposes,  from  transport  of  fruits  and  vegetables  to  outfitting  the 
Soviet  navy.  Major  shipyards  were  the  Uljanik  Shipyard  at  Pula, 
the  May  3  Shipyard  at  Rijeka  (the  largest  in  Yugoslavia),  the  Split 
Shipyard,  and  the  Dunavbrod  Association  of  inland  shipyards, 
based  in  Zagreb.  Jugotanker,  a  firm  based  at  Zadar,  had  one  of 
the  world's  largest  tanker  fleets. 

Metallurgy 

Among  major  metallurgical  facilities  were  the  Trepca  Metallur- 
gical Combine  in  Kosovo,  which  produced  zinc,  tin,  and  refined 
silver  and  gold;  the  Metal  Semifinished  Products  Industry  at 
Slovenska  Bistrica  in  Slovenia,  specializing  in  alumina  processing; 
the  Smederevo  Metallurgical  Combine,  known  for  microalloys  and 
automobile  steel  important  in  replacing  imported  metals;  the  Zor- 
ka  Plant  at  Sabac  in  western  Serbia,  which  produced  sheet  and 
finished  metals;  and  the  Topola  Foundry,  also  in  western  Serbia, 
important  for  cast  iron  and  modular  metals  for  the  automobile  in- 
dustry. In  1987  the  metallurgy  industry  contributed  one-third  of 
Yugoslavia's  total  exports  (US$4.2  billion).  In  the  1980s,  however, 
many  of  Yugoslavia's  steel-producing  industries  faced  stagnation 
because  of  hard-currency  shortages  that  curtailed  the  import  of  cold- 
rolled  steel  used  in  finishing.  Outdated  extraction  technology  and 
weak  infrastructure  hindered  enterprises  that  relied  on  domestic 
materials. 

Automotive  Industry 

The  extensive  Yugoslav  automotive  industry  was  dominated  by 
the  Red  Banner  (Crvena  zastava)  group  of  plants,  located  in 
Kragujevac  and  several  other  cities.  Red  Banner  produced  pas- 
senger automobiles  such  as  the  Yugo,  Zastava,  Una,  and  Florida; 
commercial  and  delivery  vehicles;  and  machine  tools.  In  1989  half 
the  enterprise's  production  was  exported,  primarily  to  France, 


141 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


1988  GNP  BY  SECTOR 
(87.0%  SOCIAL,  13.0%  PRIVATE) 


OTHER 
HANDICRAFTS  2.8% 


INDUSTRY 
AND  MINING 
44.6% 


AGRICULTURE, 
FORESTRY,  AND  FISHING 
14.5% 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Yugoslavia,  Savezni  zavod  za  statistiku,  Statisticki godisnjak 
Jugoslavije,  1989,  Belgrade,  1990,  101. 

Figure  9.  Gross  National  Product  (GNP)  by  Sector,  1975  and  1988 


142 


The  Economy 


Poland,  the  Soviet  Union,  the  German  Democratic  Republic  (East 
Germany),  and  the  United  States.  In  joint  production  agreements 
with  firms  in  France,  Poland,  the  Soviet  Union,  Italy,  and  East 
Germany,  Red  Banner  contributed  vehicle  components,  machine 
tools,  and  spare  parts. 

Chemicals 

Production  of  chemical  fertilizers,  rubber,  plastics,  ammonia, 
liquefied  gas,  coke,  and  petroleum  byproducts  was  vital  to  Yugo- 
slav self-sufficiency  in  the  1980s.  The  large  petrochemical  and 
oil-refining  facility  built  by  Dow  Chemical  on  the  north  Adriatic  is- 
land of  Krk  became  the  chief  Yugoslav  petroleum  processing  plant. 
Although  Yugoslavia  had  little  prospect  of  independence  from  for- 
eign oil  suppliers,  the  Krk  plant  enhanced  its  independence  at  the 
petrochemical  processing  stage.  Other  major  petrochemical  and 
chemical  facilities  included  the  Chemical  Industry  at  Pancevo,  the 
Petroleum  Industry  of  Zagreb,  and  the  Chemical  Production  In- 
dustry at  Prahovo  in  eastern  Serbia.  The  main  customers  for  Yu- 
goslav chemicals  and  petrochemicals  in  the  late  1980s  were  the 
Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Europe,  with  some  sales  to  Britain,  Ita- 
ly, France,  Belgium,  Greece,  the  Netherlands,  Luxembourg,  and 
the  United  States. 

The  Industrial  Structure  in  1990 

By  the  1980s,  four  decades  of  intensive  investment  had  yielded 
significant  expansion  in  the  range  and  depth  of  Yugoslav  industri- 
al output.  In  1986  the  largest  proportions  of  national  industrial  out- 
put came  from  production  of  electrical  energy  (12.5  percent);  food 
processing,  machinery,  and  transport  equipment  (each  almost  1 1 
percent);  textiles  (over  10  percent);  metalworking  (8.2  percent); 
and  chemicals  (6.9  percent).  Because  industrial  policy  in  the  1970s 
emphasized  domestic  self-sufficiency  in  manufactured  goods,  domes- 
tic markets  received  larger  proportions  of  industrial  output  from 
that  time;  Yugoslav  industry  was  able  to  meet  a  high  percentage 
of  domestic  demand  for  consumer  goods  under  these  conditions. 

Despite  its  impressive  growth,  Yugoslav  industry  in  1990  was 
beset  by  a  number  of  problems.  Imbalances  in  investment  since 
the  1950s  had  resulted  in  an  inadequate  supply  infrastructure  for 
electric  power,  water,  and  transport.  In  addition,  many  domestic 
firms  were  unable  to  meet  customer  demand  because  of  shortages 
in  raw  materials,  components,  and  spare  parts  for  machinery.  In 
some  industries,  low  quality  precluded  export  of  Yugoslav  goods. 
Decentralization  of  investment  decision  making  in  the  1960s  frustra- 
ted interregional  investment.  Neither  federal  nor  republic  authorities 


143 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

had  sufficient  investment  funds  to  finance  expansion  of  basic  in- 
dustries, and  enterprises  were  reluctant  to  place  funds  outside  their 
home  republics.  In  this  way,  republics  and  provinces  became  eco- 
nomically isolated  from  one  another.  The  1990  reforms  were 
designed  to  improve  capital  mobility  and  structural  imbalances  by 
giving  the  federal  government  more  power  in  macroeconomic 
policy-making  areas  such  as  investment  targeting. 

By  the  end  of  the  1980s,  the  agricultural  predominance  of  the 
1940s  had  given  way  to  an  industrial  system  whose  diversity  resem- 
bled that  of  the  developed  West.  In  1987  one-quarter  of  the  coun- 
try's population  was  employed  in  agriculture,  compared  with 
three-quarters  in  1945.  In  1987  agriculture  and  fishing  contribut- 
ed only  11  percent  of  the  Yugoslav  GMP,  compared  with  45  per- 
cent from  manufacturing  and  mining. 

Agriculture 

Yugoslavia  has  abundant  fertile  farmland.  Throughout  the  post- 
war period,  the  private  sector  predominated  in  both  amount  of  land 
tilled  and  production.  In  1987  the  2.6  million  privately  owned  farms 
in  Yugoslavia  accounted  for  84  percent  of  all  agricultural  land.  The 
social  sector  in  agriculture  included  large  agroindustrial  complex- 
es, or  combines,  which  also  processed  the  food  they  produced  and 
dominated  the  food  processing  industry.  The  agricultural  social  sec- 
tor also  included  state  farms,  owned  and  operated  directly  by  the 
state,  and  general  agricultural  cooperatives.  Most  of  the  farms  in 
the  social  sector  were  located  in  the  north,  in  the  Pannonian  Plains 
of  Vojvodina  and  eastern  Croatia.  All  government  agricultural  in- 
vestments and  subsidies  were  reserved  for  state  farms  and  general 
agricultural  cooperatives;  this  meant  that  social  sector  farming  was 
usually  more  technologically  advanced  than  private  sector  farm- 
ing. Nevertheless,  private  farms  far  exceeded  those  in  the  social 
sector  in  overall  basic  equipment,  livestock  holdings,  and  land  cul- 
tivated (see  table  14,  Appendix). 

Over  65  percent  of  arable  land  in  Yugoslavia  was  devoted  to  the 
cultivation  of  cereals,  particularly  corn,  wheat,  and  rye.  The  prin- 
cipal nonfood  crop  was  tobacco,  which  supplied  the  domestic 
cigarette  industry;  hemp,  cotton,  and  hops  also  were  widely  culti- 
vated and  processed  domestically.  Almost  all  the  cotton  and  more 
than  half  of  the  tobacco  came  from  Macedonia,  while  more  than 
60  percent  of  hops  were  grown  in  Slovenia.  Collective  farms  on 
the  Pannonian  Plains  produced  corn,  wheat,  sugar  beets,  potatoes, 
and  sunflowers.  All  regions  of  the  country  produced  wine,  each 
area  with  its  own  characteristic  varieties.  Yugoslavia  was  also  known 


144 


Collective  dairy  farm,  Becej  Vojvodina 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 

for  cultivation  of  orchard  fruits,  particularly  plums,  apples,  pears, 
and  peaches. 

Pigs,  sheep,  horses,  and  cattle  were  the  main  types  of  livestock 
raised  in  Yugoslavia.  Pigs  and  poultry  were  raised  for  meat,  cattle 
for  meat  and  dairy  products,  and  sheep  mainly  for  wool.  Serbia 
was  the  largest  pig-breeding  area;  the  large  Muslim  populations 
of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  and  Kosovo  limited  pig  breeding  in 
those  regions.  Sheep  raising  was  centered  in  the  uplands  of  Serbia 
and  Macedonia;  beef  and  dairy  cattle  were  raised  in  all  the  north- 
ern republics.  Live  animals  and  meat  products  were  two  of  Yu- 
goslavia's largest  export  items  in  the  late  1980s. 

Irrigation,  flood  control,  drainage  works,  and  facilities  for  the 
distribution  and  storage  of  produce  were  adequate  only  in  some 
regions  of  Yugoslavia  in  1990.  Construction  of  such  agricultural 
infrastructure  required  heavy  capital  expenditure  that  was  often 
unavailable  because  of  the  chronic  undercapitalization  of  Yugo- 
slav agriculture.  Thus,  Yugoslav  farming  enterprises  remained 
highly  vulnerable  to  weather  conditions  in  the  1980s.  For  this  rea- 
son, and  because  of  population  growth  and  higher  nutritional  ex- 
pectations after  World  War  II,  Yugoslavia  was  a  net  importer  of 
agricultural  products  through  the  entire  postwar  period.  The  United 


145 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

States,  the  Soviet  Union,  Australia,  and  Canada  were  Yugoslavia's 
main  suppliers  of  food,  mostly  grain. 

In  the  1980s,  the  Yugoslav  agricultural  sector  performed  ineffi- 
ciently. The  food  distribution  system  was  weak,  farm  incomes  were 
low,  and  until  the  1990  reforms  agricultural  prices  were  under  strict 
control.  Moreover,  because  most  investment  funds  were  earmarked 
for  the  social  sector,  state  farms  showed  higher  yields  than  farms 
in  the  much  larger  private  sector.  State  agricultural  investment  poli- 
cy thus  prevented  application  of  modern  agricultural  methods  in 
over  80  percent  of  agricultural  activity,  resulting  in  inefficient  use 
of  large  amounts  of  agricultural  machinery  and  artificial  fertiliz- 
ers. The  long-standing  imbalance  of  agricultural  investment  and 
the  importance  of  the  private  sector  were  recognized  in  the  1980s 
by  the  federal  government's  Green  Plans  (see  Glossary),  which 
devoted  special  attention  and  funding  to  agriculture  and  officially 
recognized  the  private  sector  as  the  most  important  supplier  of  farm 
produce.  The  Green  Plans  did  increase  crop  yields  somewhat,  but 
in  the  late  1980s  they  were  unable  to  overcome  the  inherent  weak- 
ness of  investment  and  infrastructure  policy. 

Energy  and  Mineral  Resources 

Energy  policy  in  the  late  1980s  was  aimed  at  reducing  depen- 
dence on  foreign  sources  and  utilizing  domestic  power  resources 
more  fully.  For  conventional  power  generation,  the  Yugoslav  power 
industries  began  replacing  heavy  oil  with  coal  in  thermoelectric 
generators  and  relying  more  heavily  on  hydroelectric  stations.  De- 
velopment of  nuclear  power  generation  was  limited  by  public 
resistance  (especially  after  the  Chernobyl'  disaster  in  1986)  and  by 
lack  of  domestic  technology  and  nuclear  fuel. 

The  southern  portions  of  Yugoslavia  were  richer  in  lignite  (soft 
coal)  and  hydroelectric  potential,  while  the  more  prosperous  north- 
ern areas  produced  all  the  country's  crude  petroleum  and  one-third 
of  its  total  electrical  power  (see  fig.  10).  Yugoslavia  always  had  an 
overall  shortage  of  energy  resources:  natural  gas  and  oil  reserves 
were  meager,  low-caloric  lignite  (soft  coal)  was  by  far  the  predomi- 
nant type  of  coal,  and  other  fuel  deposits  remained  unexploited 
because  of  insufficient  funding  for  exploration  and  equipment.  In 
1990,  because  of  poor  funding  support  and  conflicting  regional  in- 
terests, Yugoslavia  still  lacked  a  complete  nationwide  electric  trans- 
mission grid.  Industry  regularly  experienced  power  shortages  caused 
by  weaknesses  in  the  transmission  system  and  lack  of  generating 
capacity.  Periodic  emergency  measures  to  restrict  energy  consump- 
tion included  limits  on  use  of  private  automobiles  and  stricter  speed 


146 


The  Economy 


limits.  In  the  late  1980s,  the  Croatian  power  industry  was  near 
bankruptcy,  and  the  Yugoslav  oil  industry  faced  collapse. 

In  1989  Yugoslav  wells  supplied  only  26  percent  of  domestic  raw 
petroleum  requirements;  the  main  foreign  suppliers  were  the  Soviet 
Union,  Iraq,  and  Libya.  Significant  amounts  of  domestic  petrole- 
um and  natural  gas  came  only  from  wells  in  the  sedimentary  rock 
of  the  Pannonian  Basin.  Lack  of  proper  equipment  and  up-to-date 
technology  limited  exploration  of  several  large  deposits  believed 
to  exist  in  that  area.  In  1968  extensive  natural  gas  prospecting  and 
some  oil  prospecting  began  in  the  Adriatic  Sea,  assisted  by  heavy 
foreign  investment.  In  1988  Southern  Adriatic  I  near  Ulcinj  in 
Montenegro  became  the  first  offshore  oil  well  to  go  into  operation 
with  support  from  a  domestic  interrepublican  investment  group. 
Despite  declining  foreign  participation  and  lower  international  oil 
prices,  Adriatic  exploration  continued  in  1990  because  of  Yugo- 
slavia's strong  need  to  improve  the  balance  of  domestic  versus  im- 
ported fuel  supply.  The  Adria  Pipeline  was  the  major  supply  line 
of  petroleum  connecting  the  Adriatic  port  at  Krk  Island  to  indus- 
tries and  refineries  in  the  interior  of  the  country. 

Production  of  natural  gas  increased  significantly  in  the  1980s 
with  the  opening  of  the  Molve  field  in  Croatia  in  1985  and  three 
wells  in  the  northern  Adriatic  in  1989.  Molve  increased  national 
production  by  one- third,  yielding  1  billion  cubic  meters  annually. 
Yugoslavia  remained  heavily  dependent  on  the  Soviet  Union  for 
natural  gas  in  1990,  although  Adriatic  exploration  continued.  In 
1985  construction  began  on  a  pipeline  connecting  the  Soviet  Union 
with  Macedonia;  in  1986  the  Yugoslav  natural  gas  distribution  sys- 
tem included  about  2,880  kilometers  of  pipeline. 

Coal  was  the  most  important  fuel  for  Yugoslav  energy  genera- 
tion in  the  late  twentieth  century;  75  percent  of  domestic  coal  went 
to  thermoelectric  plants.  Total  coal  reserves  were  estimated  at  22 
billion  tons  in  1985,  and  total  production  remained  around  70  mil- 
lion tons  yearly  in  the  late  1980s.  In  1990  hard  coal  production 
was  less  than  in  the  1960s,  but  production  of  lower-quality  brown 
coal  and  lignite  remained  steady  through  the  1980s.  The  center 
of  the  lignite  industry  was  the  Tito  Mines  complex  at  Tuzla  in  the 
Pannonian  Basin.  Yugoslavia's  only  deposits  of  high-grade  bitumi- 
nous coal  were  in  relatively  small  reserves  in  Istria  in  northwest 
Croatia,  eastern  Serbia,  and  Bosnia.  Potential  new  reserves  had 
been  located  but  not  yet  evaluated  in  1990. 

In  spite  of  the  importance  of  coal  to  the  Yugoslav  economy,  in- 
efficiency in  managing  power  resources  led  to  significant  waste  in 
the  coal  industry.  Shaft  mine  output  increased  throughout  the  1980s, 
but  at  the  expense  of  decreased  productivity  rates,  wasted  resources, 


147 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  10.  Industrial  Centers  and  Natural  Resources,  1990 

abnormal  wear  on  equipment,  and  unusually  high  production  costs. 
Surface  mining  of  Yugoslavia's  lignite  reserves  also  was  mis- 
managed. Although  Kosovo  contained  the  largest  lignite  field  in 
Europe  and  50  percent  of  Yugoslavia's  coal  reserves,  inefficien- 
cies in  energy  planning  limited  Kosovo's  contribution  to  15  per- 
cent of  the  country's  actual  coal  supply  in  1988. 

The  potential  for  developing  hydroelectric  power  in  Yugoslavia 
in  the  1980s  was  greater  than  for  development  of  fossil  fuels.  From 
1956  through  the  1980s,  production  of  electricity  from  hydroelec- 
tric sources  exceeded  that  from  all  other  sources.  Despite  heavy 
investment  in  this  area,  however,  only  an  estimated  20  percent  of 
Yugoslavia's  hydroelectric  potential  was  in  use  in  1990.  Many  ob- 
stacles hindered  access  to  resources  in  mountainous  watersheds  of 
the  Drina,  Bosna,  and  Neretva  rivers  (see  fig.  6).  Costs  were  very 
high  for  building  power  stations  in  difficult  terrain  and  for  transmit- 
ting power  across  hundreds  of  miles  of  mountains  to  consumers.  In 
the  1980s,  the  largest  provider  of  hydroelectric  power  to  Yugoslavia 


148 


The  Economy 


was  the  joint  Yugoslav-Romanian  Djerdap  Hydroelectric  Station 
on  the  Danube  River. 

Krsko,  Yugoslavia's  first  nuclear  power  station,  was  designed  by 
the  United  States  firm  Westinghouse;  it  began  transmitting  power 
from  its  site  in  eastern  Slovenia  in  1982.  In  1987  Krsko  produced 
about  5  percent  of  Yugoslav  domestic  electric  power.  After  its  con- 
struction, however,  further  nuclear  development  became  problemat- 
ic. Although  Yugoslav  uranium  deposits  in  eastern  Serbia  were 
believed  sufficient  to  fuel  additional  nuclear  reactors,  policy  mak- 
ers feared  the  results  of  Yugoslav  dependence  on  foreign  nuclear 
fuel  suppliers.  In  1990  the  Krsko  plant  still  imported  all  its  nuclear 
fuel  from  the  United  States.  At  the  other  end  of  the  generation 
process,  Yugoslavia  had  no  good  sites  for  nuclear  waste  disposal. 

In  1986  Yugoslavia  began  looking  for  foreign  credits  to  build 
four  new  nuclear  plants.  However,  environmental  and  political  fac- 
tors and  the  prospects  of  increasing  the  foreign  debt  made  this  an 
unpopular  program  by  the  late  1980s.  Policy  makers  feared  that 
new  plants  would  divide  the  country  into  western  and  eastern 
nuclear  spheres,  exacerbating  Serbian-Slovenian  economic  and  po- 
litical disputes.  The  Krsko  plant  and  a  projected  plant  in  Prevlaka 
in  western  Yugoslavia  were  financed  by  Western  partners;  three 
other  projected  plants  in  Serbia,  Macedonia,  and  Montenegro  were 
to  be  financed  by  the  Soviet  Union.  Hot  interregional  disputes  post- 
poned building  of  these  plants  into  the  1990s  and  weakened  na- 
tional resolve  to  continue  a  program  of  nuclear  power  generation. 

Yugoslavia  was  endowed  with  a  wide  variety  of  ferrous  and  non- 
ferrous  ores.  About  80  percent  of  the  country's  iron  ore  reserves 
were  located  at  Vares  and  Ljubija  in  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina,  with 
other  major  deposits  in  Slovenia  and  Macedonia.  A  poor  trans- 
portation network  and  lack  of  suitable  fuels  near  the  highest  grade 
deposits  hindered  exploitation  of  those  ores.  Yugoslavia  could  prob- 
ably have  been  self-supporting  in  iron  ore  if  resources  were  fully 
exploited,  but  in  1990  the  country  was  still  a  net  importer  of  iron 
ore,  scrap,  and  semifinished  steel. 

Yugoslavia  also  was  rich  in  several  nonferrous  metals.  Bosnia 
and  Hercegovina  produced  56  percent  of  the  country's  bauxite, 
while  Kosovo's  Trepca  Metallurgical  Combine,  the  largest  lead- 
and-zinc  center  in  the  country,  enabled  that  province  to  produce 
47  percent  of  Yugoslavia's  lead  and  zinc  ores.  Kosovo  also  sup- 
plied a  substantial  part  of  Yugoslav  chromium.  The  Bor  and  Maj- 
danpek  areas  of  Serbia  were  the  only  copper  sources  in  the  country, 
and  Serbia  also  provided  most  of  Yugoslavia's  antimony.  Macedo- 
nia contributed  chromium,  manganese,  and  uranium,  and  the  most 


149 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

productive  mercury  mines  in  Europe  were  located  at  Idrija  in  the 
Julian  Alps  of  Slovenia. 

Many  of  Yugoslavia's  mineral  deposits  were  in  inaccessible  areas 
remote  from  sources  of  energy.  Massive  capital  investments  were 
needed  for  the  roads  and  communications  necessary  to  reach  many 
untapped  reserves.  But  Yugoslav  industry  often  lacked  the  capac- 
ity to  absorb  available  mineral  resources,  and  much  raw  and  semi- 
finished material  was  exported  in  return  for  manufactured  goods. 

Transportation  and  Telecommunications 

The  reconstruction  period  of  1945-47  emphasized  repair  of  the 
transportation  network  destroyed  during  World  War  II.  Even  in 
1990,  road  and  rail  communications  in  many  regions,  particular- 
ly the  mountainous  areas  of  Kosovo,  eastern  Bosnia,  and  southern 
Serbia,  were  still  inadequate  (see  fig.  11).  In  addition,  the  Dinaric 
Alps,  running  along  the  Adriatic  coast,  were  an  obstacle  to  effi- 
cient transport  of  interior  resources  to  the  coast  for  shipping.  Only 
two  main  rail  lines,  the  Zagreb-Split  line  and  the  Sarajevo-Ploce 
line,  cut  from  the  interior  to  seaports.  These  deficiencies  had  a  pro- 
found effect  on  the  ability  of  Yugoslavia  to  develop  its  mineral  and 
hydroelectric  resources. 

Transportation  lines  in  the  northern  lowlands  and  southward 
along  the  Vardar  and  Morava  rivers  were  better  developed  because 
they  served  international  traffic  and  linked  the  republic  capitals 
of  Ljubljana,  Zagreb,  Belgrade,  and  Skopje.  Routes  from  Italy  and 
Austria  converged  at  Ljubljana,  and  several  important  road  and 
rail  lines  ran  north  into  Hungary  from  the  area  between  Zagreb 
and  Belgrade. 

The  tourism  boom  that  began  in  the  1960s  led  to  the  construc- 
tion of  a  number  of  new  highways,  most  important  of  which  was 
the  Adriatic  Coastal  Highway  running  from  Rijeka  to  the  Albani- 
an border.  From  that  highway  several  link  roads  were  built  into 
the  interior.  In  1990  plans  called  for  the  interior  roads  to  link  the 
Adriatic  Coastal  Highway  with  the  Brotherhood  and  Unity  High- 
way, which  ran  from  Yugoslavia's  northern  border  with  Austria 
through  Ljubljana,  Zagreb,  Belgrade,  and  Skopje  and  across  the 
southeastern  border  into  Bulgaria.  Two-thirds  of  the  highway  were 
to  be  open  as  a  six-lane  road  in  the  mid-1990s,  with  the  southern 
portion  remaining  a  two-lane  road.  In  1990  about  106,000  kilo- 
meters of  Yugoslav  roads  had  hard  surfaces,  and  another  15,100 
kilometers  had  dirt  surfaces.  In  1987  some  3  million  passenger  au- 
tomobiles and  207,000  trucks  were  registered  in  Yugoslavia. 

In  1990  the  country  had  about  9,300  kilometers  of  rail  lines,  of 
which  about  3,800  kilometers  were  electrified.  All  rail  lines  were 


150 


Trepca  Metallurgical  Combine,  Kosovo 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 

standard- gauge,  1.435-meter  track;  10  percent  of  them  were  dou- 
ble track  in  1988.  Yugoslavia  had  184  usable  airports  in  1988,  of 
which  54  had  permanent- surface  runways  and  23  were  longer  than 
2,440  meters.  The  largest  international  airports  were  in  Belgrade, 
Zagreb,  Ljubljana,  Sarajevo,  Skopje,  Dubrovnik,  Split,  Titograd, 
Maribor,  and  Zadar.  The  Yugoslav  national  airline,  Yugoslav  Air 
Transport  (Jugoslovenski  Aero  Transport — J  AT)  flew  5.8  million 
passengers  in  1986. 

In  1988  the  Yugoslav  merchant  marine  included  269  ships,  total- 
ing 5.4  million  deadweight  tons;  Yugoslavia  also  owned  twenty- 
one  ships,  totaling  347,000  deadweight  tons,  registered  in  Liberia 
and  Panama.  The  merchant  marine  fleet  included  134  cargo,  72 
bulk,  15  container,  14  roll-on  roll-off  ships,  and  9  petroleum  tankers. 
Yugoslavia  also  had  1,194  river  craft,  which  navigated  inland  on 
1,620  kilometers  miles  of  rivers,  640  kilometers  of  canals,  and  lakes 
Scutari  and  Ohrid.  The  major  Adriatic  ports  were  Rijeka,  Split, 
Bar,  and  Ploce;  Belgrade  was  the  major  inland  port,  located  on 
the  Danube. 

In  the  1980s,  telecommunications  in  Yugoslavia  were  quite  ad- 
vanced in  comparison  with  the  national  transportion  systems.  The 
Yugoslav  Radio  and  Television  Network  (Jugoslovenska  Radio- 
televizija)  operated  250  radio  and  television  stations  in  1986;  its 


151 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

main  broadcasting  centers  were  in  Belgrade,  Ljubljana,  Sarajevo, 
Novi  Sad,  Pristina,  Skopje,  Titograd,  and  Zagreb.  Both  national 
and  local  programming  were  offered,  and  Radio  Koper  also  broad- 
cast in  Italian.  In  1986  about  4.8  million  radios  and  4.1  million 
television  sets  were  in  use  in  Yugoslavia.  Two  multipurpose  satellite 
dishes  of  the  International  Telecommunications  Satellite  Organiza- 
tion (Intelsat)  were  located  in  Yugoslavia,  supporting  international 
telex,  television,  and  telephone  communications.  The  government- 
operated  national  telephone  system  included  ten  phones  per  100 
residents  in  1982;  all  phones  were  direct  dial  by  1980  and  were 
evenly  divided  between  business  and  residential  installations. 

Foreign  Trade 

Unlike  other  East  European  countries,  Yugoslavia  had  no  cen- 
tralized foreign  trade  plan,  nor  was  trade  controlled  by  a  central 
foreign  trade  ministry  or  a  small  number  of  state  trading  organi- 
zations. Although  the  government  encouraged  production  for  ex- 
port, enterprises  themselves  took  part  in  making  trade  policy.  The 
Law  on  Associated  Labor  of  1976  established  self-managed  com- 
munities of  interest  for  foreign  economic  relations  in  each  repub- 
lic and  province;  those  organizations  determined  what  goods  their 
jurisdiction  should  import.  The  communities  of  interest  included 
representatives  of  local  basic  organizations  of  associated  labor, 
banks,  and  other  organizations  involved  in  trade.  Their  principal 
missions  were  to  maximize  export  profits  and  to  limit  imports  to 
comply  with  the  federal  deficit  ceiling. 

Historical  Background 

Adherence  to  the  Soviet  model  after  World  War  II  meant  that 
foreign  trade  was  controlled  entirely  by  the  state,  contact  with  the 
Western  industrialized  countries  was  kept  to  a  minimum,  and 
domestic  resources  were  used  as  much  as  possible  in  the  process 
of  industrial  development.  Therefore,  exports  were  viewed  merely 
as  a  device  for  obtaining  essential  imports,  and  many  items  were 
manufactured  within  the  country  although  they  could  have  been 
imported  much  more  cheaply.  In  1948  foreign  trade  amounted  to 
less  than  10  percent  of  Yugoslavia's  GNP.  Most  trade  activity  was 
bilateral  commodity  exchange  with  other  socialist  countries.  Over 
two-thirds  of  pre-World  War  II  Yugoslav  foreign  trade  had  been 
with  Western  Europe,  but  by  1948  over  50  percent  of  imports  and 
exports  involved  Cominform  countries. 

Immediately  following  Yugoslavia's  expulsion  from  Cominform 
in  1948,  trade  with  socialist  countries  dropped  to  zero.  This  sud- 
den change  meant  that  between  1948  and  1950  the  total  value  of 


152 


AUSTRIA 


ITALY 

w 


HI 


Varazdinl 


Ljubljana 


  International  boundary 

  Road 

' — i — i — i — h  Railroad 
  Pipeline 

®  National  capital 

•  Populated  place 

4*  Airport 

vL-  Port 


Refinery 


50 


100  Kilometers 

 1 


50 


100  Miles 


I 


Figure  11.  Transportation  and  Pipeline  Systems,  1990 
154 


The  Economy 


Yugoslav  exports  fell  by  nearly  50  percent  and  imports  by  25  per- 
cent. Yugoslavia  was  forced  to  turn  to  the  Western  industrialized 
nations  to  obtain  capital  equipment,  fuel,  and  raw  materials  for 
the  intense  industrial  development  called  for  in  the  first  two  five- 
year  plans.  Throughout  the  1950s,  United  States  and  West  Euro- 
pean credits  and  grants  were  vital  in  sustaining  industrial  growth 
in  Yugoslavia. 

As  early  as  1961,  new  foreign  exchange  and  foreign  trade  poli- 
cies stressed  liberalization  and  decentralization.  The  driving  moti- 
vation of  the  reform  of  1965  was  to  bring  Yugoslavia  into  the  world 
market.  This  meant  removal  of  foreign  trade  barriers  and  open 
economic  competition  with  foreign  enterprises.  Theoretically,  those 
developments  would  spur  greater  efficiency  in  the  domestic  mar- 
ket and  make  Yugoslav  goods  more  competitive  on  the  world  mar- 
ket. As  a  result,  Yugoslavia  could  sell  its  competitive  goods  on  the 
international  market  and  halt  production  of  items  that  could  be 
imported  more  cheaply.  The  domestic  market  remained  under  the 
protection  of  partial  government  price  support  until  Yugoslavia 
could  be  fully  transformed  to  a  market  economy  and  the  dinar  made 
convertible  to  Western  currency. 

Trade  in  the  1970s  was  greatly  influenced  by  Yugoslavia's  de- 
pendence on  oil  imports  and  a  worsening  balance  of  payments.  In- 
creases in  world  oil  prices  in  1973  and  1979  accelerated  import  costs, 
whereas  export  growth  was  slow.  The  Fifth  Five- Year  Plan 
(1976-80)  failed  to  transfer  emphasis  to  technologically  advanced 
industries  able  to  replace  imports  and  expand  exports.  Balance  of 
payments  constraints  slowed  domestic  activity  in  1972,  in  1975-76, 
and  in  1979-81.  In  addition,  the  world  recession  at  the  end  of  the 
1970s  caused  net  interest  payments  on  foreign  debts  to  increase 
considerably,  net  receipts  from  Yugoslavs  working  abroad  to 
decline,  and  foreign  lenders  to  withdraw. 

In  1980  Yugoslavia  owed  over  US$18  billion  to  Western  credi- 
tors. Because  the  only  way  to  shift  the  debt  was  to  increase  exports, 
the  slogan  adopted  for  trade  policy  in  the  1980s  was  "export  by 
any  means."  Exports  accelerated,  and  prices  for  them  dropped. 
By  1986  the  Yugoslav  trade  deficit  with  the  European  Economic 
Community  (EEC — see  Glossary)  had  dropped  to  US$1  billion 
from  its  1980  level  of  US$4  billion.  But  this  drop  was  more  a  func- 
tion of  decreased  non-oil  imports,  required  to  conserve  hard  cur- 
rency reserves,  than  of  increased  exports. 

Trade  with  the  industrialized  West  dropped  sharply  in  the 
mid-1980s,  from  a  55.6  percent  share  in  1978  to  43.3  percent  in 
1984.  During  this  period,  debt  owed  to  Western  Europe  reached 
60  percent  of  the  total  Yugoslav  debt.  In  response,  a  piecemeal 


155 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

policy  rescheduled  some  debt,  sought  loans  from  new  Western 
sources,  and  continued  repayment  of  at  least  the  interest  on  exist- 
ing debts. 

After  massive  devaluations  in  the  dinar  in  1989,  that  currency 
was  pegged  to  the  West  German  deutsche  mark  and  declared  con- 
vertible in  January  1990.  Set  at  seven  dinars  to  the  deutsche  mark, 
the  dinar  was  to  move  parallel  with  the  DM  against  other  Western 
currencies.  This  provision  allowed  citizens  as  well  as  enterprises 
to  convert  dinars  to  Western  currency  upon  demand.  At  the  be- 
ginning of  the  1990s,  economists  predicted  that  the  value  of  Yu- 
goslav exports  would  continue  to  rise  to  record  levels  and  the  foreign 
debt  would  be  manageable;  in  the  early  stages  of  the  reform,  the 
"new"  dinar  proved  more  stable  than  most  economists  had  ex- 
pected. 

Exports  and  Imports 

Yugoslavia's  exports  in  the  late  1980s  consisted  mainly  of 
manufactured  goods,  ores,  and  simple  processed  goods.  Over  one- 
quarter  of  goods  sold  abroad  were  machinery  and  transportation 
equipment  (see  table  15,  Appendix).  This  was  a  relatively  high 
proportion  of  sophisticated  exports,  considering  that  among  Eu- 
ropean nations  Yugoslavia  ranked  low  in  per  capita  income.  Main 
export  customers  were  Italy,  the  Soviet  Union,  France,  Austria, 
Czechoslovakia,  the  United  States,  and  the  Federal  Republic  of 
Germany  (West  Germany).  Live  horses  and  meat  products  were 
Yugoslavia's  most  important  agricultural  exports.  The  largest  single 
meat  export,  veal,  was  shipped  primarily  to  Greece.  Meat  export 
declined  in  the  late  1970s  because  of  EEC  trade  barriers,  a  rise 
in  domestic  meat  consumption,  and  feed  shortages;  but  between 
1985  and  1987,  total  meat  product  exports  more  than  doubled,  ris- 
ing well  beyond  the  1980  level.  Yugoslavia  ran  trade  deficits  in 
merchandise  of  US$1.5  billion  in  1985,  US$2.2  billion  in  1986, 
US$1.4  billion  in  1987,  and  US$619  million  in  1988. 

Throughout  the  postwar  period,  Yugoslavia  was  a  net  importer 
of  raw  materials,  fuels,  iron  and  steel  products,  and  capital  equip- 
ment (see  table  16,  Appendix).  Chief  suppliers  of  petroleum 
products  were  the  Soviet  Union,  Iraq,  Libya,  and  Algeria.  Ma- 
chinery and  transportation  equipment,  also  imported  in  large 
amounts,  came  principally  from  West  Germany,  Italy,  the  Unit- 
ed States,  the  Soviet  Union,  Britain,  and  Czechoslovakia.  In  the 
category  of  raw  materials  other  than  petroleum,  Yugoslavia  bought 
oilseeds  and  coal  from  the  United  States;  wool  from  Australia;  cot- 
ton, coal,  and  iron  ore  from  the  Soviet  Union;  and  cotton  from 
Egypt. 


156 


Mostar  loop,  part  of  the  Belgrade  highway  system 
Courtesy  Yugoslav  National  Tourist  Office,  New  York 

Trading  Partners 

Yugoslavia's  trade  policy  followed  the  complete  realignment  of 
its  foreign  policy  after  expulsion  from  the  Cominform  in  1948.  By 
the  1960s,  structural  reform  and  entry  into  the  international  mar- 
ket had  broken  down  many  economic  and  social  barriers  between 
Yugoslavia  and  the  outside  world.  Although  the  Soviet  Union  re- 
mained Yugoslavia's  largest  trading  partner  throughout  the  1980s, 
the  emergence  in  1986  of  West  Germany  as  Yugoslavia's  top  source 
of  imports  typified  increased  emphasis  on  trade  with  Western  Eu- 
rope (see  table  17,  Appendix).  Beginning  in  the  1980s,  Yugosla- 
via traded  with  developing  countries  more  selectively  than  it  had 
in  previous  decades,  when  the  Yugoslav  economy  was  more  able 
to  absorb  the  commercial  losses  associated  with  such  ventures. 

Yugoslavia's  growing  trade  deficit  greatly  influenced  its  trade 
with  Western  industrialized  nations  in  the  1980s.  Many  measures 
were  adopted  to  cut  all  but  essential  imports  from  the  West  and 
encourage  import-substituting  domestic  industries.  But  the  import 
of  expensive  Western  technology  often  was  a  prerequisite  for  es- 
tablishing such  industries.  On  the  export  side,  over  half  of  Yugo- 
slav exports  still  went  to  the  East  European  members  of  the  Council 
for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance  (Comecon — see  Glossary)  in  the 


157 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

1980s,  but  only  the  more  demanding  Western  markets  (and  limited 
Third  World  transactions)  paid  hard  currency  for  Yugoslav  goods. 

The  Industrialized  West 

Yugoslavia  became  a  member  of  the  General  Agreement  on 
Tariffs  and  Trade  (GATT — see  Glossary)  in  1965,  when  Tito's 
reform  program  brought  tariff  and  trade  regulations  into  line  with 
international  practice.  The  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF — 
see  Glossary)  began  substantial  loan  support  to  Yugoslavia  in  1965. 
Although  the  United  States  provided  Yugoslavia  substantial  finan- 
cial aid  throughout  the  postwar  years,  Yugoslavia's  trade  with  the 
industrialized  West  focused  on  Western  Europe.  In  the  1980s,  eco- 
nomic relations  with  that  region,  which  was  also  the  greatest  source 
of  foreign  loans  to  Yugoslavia,  became  even  more  important.  A 
1981  agreement  with  the  EEC  allowed  Yugoslavia  to  sell  70  per- 
cent of  its  industrial  goods  duty  free  in  EEC  markets.  This  con- 
cession led  to  a  Yugoslav  policy  of  large-scale  below-cost  export 
to  Western  Europe  and  to  resentment  from  EEC  members  whose 
products  were  undercut.  The  quality  of  Yugoslav  products  often 
remained  unsatisfactory  to  West  European  markets,  however,  and 
competition  increased  as  EEC  members  granted  concessions  to  their 
former  colonies  in  the  1980s.  Overall  trade  between  Yugoslavia 
and  the  EEC  fell  by  15  percent  between  1980  and  1985.  The  trade 
deficit  with  the  EEC  was  cut  by  75  percent  in  the  same  period  (from 
US$4  billion  to  US$1  billion),  but  only  because  of  severe  cuts  in 
imports  associated  with  Yugoslavia's  overall  economic  decline. 

The  Common  Agricultural  Policy  of  the  EEC,  designed  to  pro- 
tect EEC  farmers  from  low-priced  outside  competition,  excluded 
most  Yugoslav  agricultural  products  from  that  market  in  the  1980s. 
In  the  late  1980s,  Yugoslavia's  trade  imbalance  crisis  brought  EEC 
concessions  in  the  sale  of  specific  products  such  as  wine  and  veal, 
but  clothing,  textiles,  and  most  produce  remained  subject  to  EEC 
duties. 

Full  membership  in  the  EEC  became  a  goal  of  Yugoslav  eco- 
nomic policy  in  the  late  1980s,  and  the  media  discussed  the  prospect 
constantly;  in  1990  Prime  Minister  Ante  Markovic  officially 
declared  that  recent  economic  and  political  reforms  qualified  his 
country  for  inclusion.  In  response,  the  EEC  strongly  encouraged 
Yugoslav  emulation  of  Western  market  economics  and  extended 
favorable  financial  terms  wherever  possible.  Nonetheless,  formid- 
able reasons  remained  to  delay  full  membership.  One  major  ob- 
stacle, the  Yugoslav  trade  deficit  with  the  EEC,  had  virtually 
disappeared  by  1989.  But  Yugoslavia  would  also  have  to  eliminate 
all  duties  and  accept  all  EEC  standards  to  include  itself  in  the  EEC 


158 


The  Economy 


free  trade  zone;  the  Yugoslav  economic  structure  did  not  permit 
such  changes  in  1990. 

Politically,  in  1990  Yugoslavia  was  still  far  from  the  genuine  na- 
tional multiparty  system  required  of  EEC  members,  and  continued 
regional  conflict  jeopardized  the  long-term  credibility  of  overtures 
by  the  Markovic  government.  Yugoslavia's  strongly  neutral  inter- 
national position  also  was  a  negative  factor  until  Austria,  neutral 
but  wealthy,  applied  for  EEC  membership  in  1989.  Meanwhile, 
Yugoslavia  had  established  special  trading  relationships  with  EEC 
members  West  Germany  and  Italy  (accounting  for  70  percent  of 
Yugoslavia's  EEC  trade  in  1989),  as  well  as  most  members  of  the 
neutralist  European  Free  Trade  Association  (EFTA — see  Glossary). 
In  1988  the  EEC  granted  a  five-year  extension  of  Yugoslavia's  spe- 
cial commercial  status.  West  European  experts  generally  agreed 
that  if  it  remained  politically  stable,  Yugoslavia  would  be  admit- 
ted to  the  EEC  ahead  of  former  Comecon  members  such  as  Poland 
and  Hungary. 

The  Soviet  Union  and  Its  Allies 

Seven  years  after  the  embargo  of  Yugoslavia  by  the  Soviet  Un- 
ion and  its  allies,  trade  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  began  to 
improve.  In  1955  and  1956,  the  Soviet  Union,  Czechoslovakia, 
Poland,  and  East  Germany  granted  credits  to  Yugoslavia  totaling 
US$40  million,  at  rates  considerably  below  standard  World  Bank 
(see  Glossary)  rates.  By  1964  Yugoslavia  had  gained  observer  sta- 
tus in  Comecon,  and  some  meetings  of  that  organization  were  held 
in  Belgrade.  Because  trade  with  the  Soviet  Union  consisted  main- 
ly of  exchanging  Yugoslav  consumer  goods,  machines,  ships,  and 
transportation  equipment  for  critical  Soviet  oil,  Yugoslavia  was  at 
the  mercy  of  its  larger  partner.  In  the  1980s,  the  Soviet  Union  first 
raised  the  price  of  oil  independently  of  world  prices,  then  arbitrar- 
ily reduced  imports  of  Yugoslav  consumer  goods.  Continuation 
of  Soviet  oil  supply  arrangements  into  the  1990s  also  damaged  Yu- 
goslavia's image  as  a  nonaligned  country  qualified  for  inclusion 
in  Western  economic  groupings.  Soviet  oil  supply  became  less  relia- 
ble in  1990  when  the  Soviet  economy  experienced  a  domestic  oil 
shortage  and  cut  foreign  deliveries.  And  the  machinery  and  equip- 
ment that  Yugoslavia  exported  to  Comecon  countries  required  raw 
and  semifinished  materials  bought  with  hard  currency,  making  the 
Comecon  connection  an  indirect  hard-currency  drain  in  this  respect. 
Buying  oil  from  the  Soviet  Union,  however,  required  no  hard  cur- 
rency and  provided  a  market  for  low-quality  Yugoslav  consumer 
goods.  For  Comecon  members,  trade  with  nonaligned  Yugoslavia 


159 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

was  a  convenient  way  of  obtaining  Western  products  whose  tech- 
nological restrictions  made  them  unavailable  by  direct  purchase. 

The  Third  World 

As  a  founding  member  of  the  Nonaligned  Movement,  Yugosla- 
via established  and  maintained  commercial  relations  with  a  large 
number  of  Third  World  countries  (see  Nonalignment,  ch.  4).  But 
trade  with  the  underdeveloped  countries  never  approached  the  level 
of  trade  with  Western  Europe  or  the  Soviet  Union.  In  1987  total 
trade  volume  with  Iraq,  Yugoslavia's  largest  Third  World  part- 
ner, was  about  one-sixth  that  with  the  Soviet  Union  and  one-fifth 
that  with  West  Germany.  Between  1979  and  1987,  both  imports 
from  and  exports  to  Third  World  countries  declined  slightly  as  a 
proportion  of  the  respective  Yugoslav  totals. 

In  the  1980s,  two  factors  increasingly  defined  Yugoslavia's  trade 
policy  with  the  Third  World:  the  need  for  hard  currency  and  the 
need  to  limit  dependency  on  Soviet  oil  by  keeping  other  channels 
open.  Both  considerations  encouraged  commercial  activity  with  oil- 
rich  countries  such  as  Iraq,  Iran,  Libya,  Algeria,  Angola,  and  In- 
donesia. Because  those  countries  also  sold  oil  to  the  West,  they  were 
able  to  pay  their  Yugoslav  partners  in  hard  currency. 

In  the  1980s,  Yugoslav  energy  and  machine-building  industries 
were  especially  active  in  start-to-fmish  construction  of  electric  power 
plants  and  hydroelectric  stations,  power  transmission  lines,  irri- 
gation systems,  and  other  major  construction  projects  in  selected 
Third  World  countries.  Two  firms,  Energoinvest  of  Sarajevo  and 
Energoproekt  of  Belgrade,  represented  groups  of  Yugoslav  enter- 
prises that  acted  as  contractors  in  such  cases.  In  1988  Yugoslav 
construction  services  abroad  were  valued  at  US$1 .4  billion.  In  1990 
Yugoslav  fuel  industries  were  active  in  joint  oil  and  natural  gas 
exploration  in  Syria,  Tunisia,  Libya,  Angola,  and  Algeria. 

Yugoslav  consumer  goods,  most  notably  consumer  electronics 
from  the  Nis  Electronics  Industry,  vehicles  from  the  Red  Banner 
auto  plants,  and  footwear,  also  went  to  Third  World  markets.  Major 
customers  were  India,  Egypt,  Iran,  and  Iraq. 

Guest  Workers  and  Tourism 

Beginning  in  the  1960s,  Yugoslavia  earned  considerable  hard- 
currency  income  from  so-called  "invisibles":  remittances  from  Yu- 
goslav guest  workers  working  abroad  and  from  tourists  visiting  from 
countries  whose  currency  was  convertible  into  dinars.  These  remit- 
tances were  important  to  the  Yugoslav  budget,  particularly  in  the 
mid-1970s  when  they  bridged  the  gap  in  the  trade  balance  and 
produced  surpluses  in  the  balance  of  payments.  Beginning  in  the 


160 


Beach  at  Dubrovnik,  one  of  Yugoslavia's  major  tourist  areas 
Courtesy  World  Bank  (Hilda  Bijur) 

early  1970s,  changes  in  financial  laws  encouraged  Yugoslavs  work- 
ing abroad  to  deposit  foreign  currency  savings  in  Yugoslav  banks. 
Remittances,  which  averaged  US$2  billion  in  the  late  1970s,  be- 
came the  richest  source  of  hard-currency  income  for  the  Yugoslav 
economy.  In  the  late  1980s,  unofficial  hard-currency  income  played 
a  visible  role  in  stimulating  activity  such  as  construction  of  private 
housing.  Through  1990  about  375,000  workers  had  invested  in  Yu- 
goslav firms  after  returning,  and  another  160,000  had  started  pri- 
vate businesses. 

Yugoslavia  was  already  an  exporter  of  surplus  labor  before  World 
War  II.  The  Tito  government  actively  discouraged  that  practice 
until  the  early  1960s,  however,  when  growing  unemployment  al- 
tered official  policy.  Beginning  with  the  reform  of  1965,  govern- 
ment policy  encouraged  workers  to  go  abroad.  In  1981  there  were 
875,000  Yugoslavs  working  abroad,  mostly  in  West  Germany  and 
Austria  (see  Guest  Workers,  ch.  2). 

Generally  speaking,  heavy  reliance  on  tourism  is  not  wise  poli- 
cy for  a  developing  country  because  that  industry  is  highly  sensi- 
tive to  seasonal  fluctuations  and  uncontrollable  economic  and 
political  events.  But  from  1961,  when  1  million  tourists  visited  Yu- 
goslavia, the  figure  increased  steadily  to  over  9  million  in  1988, 
under  government  support  for  the  tourist  industry  that  had  begun 


161 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

in  the  early  1960s.  Besides  its  monetary  contributions  to  the  na- 
tional balance  of  payments,  tourism  produced  a  quick  return  for 
those  employed  in  the  hotel,  restaurant,  and  service  industries.  In 
real  terms,  income  in  those  industries  increased  about  1.7  times 
between  1965  and  1988.  Tourism  also  stimulated  the  building, 
transportation,  food  manufacturing,  and  handicrafts  industries. 

Foreign  Exchange 

Because  Yugoslavia's  industrial  strategy  did  not  stress  exports, 
few  domestic  enterprises  were  established  to  satisfy  export  demand. 
This  meant  a  scarcity  of  foreign  exchange  throughout  the  postwar 
years,  especially  in  the  1980s.  Such  a  condition  presented  two  major 
problems:  allocation  of  scarce  foreign  exchange  reserves  and  main- 
tainance  of  a  positive  balance  of  payments.  The  Yugoslav  govern- 
ment experimented  with  various  ways  to  allocate  foreign  exchange. 
Until  1986  the  retention  ratio  system  allowed  exporters  to  retain 
only  a  share  of  their  foreign  exchange  earnings,  requiring  the  rest 
to  be  diverted  to  the  National  Bank  of  Yugoslavia.  This  system 
created  much  discontent  because  enterprises  that  generated  a  con- 
siderable amount  of  foreign  currency  frequently  had  to  apply  for 
administrative  allocations,  which  they  frequently  did  not  receive. 
At  the  same  time,  because  Slovenia  and  Croatia  earned  much  of 
Yugoslavia's  foreign  currency,  the  retention  ratio  system  allocat- 
ed larger  proportions  of  the  receipts  to  those  two  republics.  This 
exacerbated  disparities  in  economic  development  and  nationalist 
conflicts  between  the  richer  and  poorer  republics.  Moreover,  allo- 
cation from  above  conflicted  with  the  principle  of  independence 
inherent  in  socialist  self-management. 

A  new  system  established  in  1986  was  directed  toward  estab- 
lishing a  free  market  in  foreign  exchange.  All  foreign  exchange 
receipts  were  to  be  surrendered  to  authorized  banks  at  official  ex- 
change rates.  Enterprises  needing  foreign  exchange  to  pay  for  im- 
ports then  applied  to  the  banks,  which  determined  the  amount  each 
enterprise  needed  by  its  use  of  foreign  exchange  the  previous  year 
and  export  performance  in  that  year.  This  system  never  worked 
because  there  was  never  enough  foreign  currency  to  satisfy  demand. 

In  1987  the  government  tried  to  apply  a  law  under  which  for- 
eign exchange  was  allocated  by  a  system  of  functional  priorities. 
The  top  priority  was  the  servicing  of  foreign  debts  and  other  for- 
eign contracts.  This  was  followed  by  needs  of  net  exporters,  pri- 
ority needs  of  federal  agencies  and  organizations,  imports  of  fuel, 
and,  lastly,  imports  of  consumer  goods.  To  compensate  firms  for 
their  loss  of  retention  rights  under  the  previous  ratio  system,  the 
federal  government  set  up  a  system  of  export  subsidies.  This  system 


162 


The  Economy 


destroyed  incentives  to  export,  which  in  turn  cut  the  influx  of  for- 
eign currency.  In  1987  the  Yugoslav  government  failed  for  the  first 
time  to  pay  interest  on  its  foreign  debt.  As  part  of  its  agreement 
in  May  1988  to  reschedule  Yugoslavia's  foreign  debt  and  provide 
new  loans,  the  IMF  forced  the  Yugoslav  government  to  relax  for- 
eign exchange  controls  and  open  an  effective  foreign  exchange  mar- 
ket. Foreign  exchange  reserves  amounted  to  US$7.5  billion  in  early 
1990. 

Managing  the  Crisis  of  the  1980s 

Between  1975  and  1980,  the  Yugoslav  social  product  fell,  and 
inflation  reached  an  annual  rate  of  50  percent.  When  the  interna- 
tional oil  shock  of  1979  hit,  policy  makers  realized  they  could  not 
continue  an  economic  development  strategy  based  on  heavy  for- 
eign borrowing  and  inefficient  investment  at  home.  In  1983  the 
Long-Term  Economic  Stabilization  Program  was  released  by  the 
government's  Krajgher  Commission.  The  commission  reexamined 
Yugoslavia's  development  priorities  and  formulated  a  revised  strate- 
gy for  the  1980s.  Self-management  would  remain  at  the  center  of 
the  system,  but  substantial  reorientation  would  occur.  Important 
elements  were  coordination  of  investment  between  industrial  and 
agricultural  sectors,  diversification  of  energy  resources,  greater  in- 
vestment in  technical  development,  and  improved  incentives  for 
the  private  sector,  now  recognized  as  the  most  efficient  part  of  the 
national  economy.  Workers,  whose  wages  had  increased  faster  than 
their  productivity  under  the  self-management  system,  would  be  sub- 
ject to  wage  austerity  programs  to  restore  the  balance. 

Although  the  party  overwhelmingly  endorsed  the  long-term  pro- 
gram, influential  conservatives  blocked  practical  application  of 
Krajgher  Commission  programs.  In  1983  the  Federal  Assembly 
(Skupstina)  passed  only  eight  of  twenty-five  major  legislative 
proposals;  it  postponed  decision  on  the  remainder,  many  of  which 
would  have  activated  parts  of  the  long-term  program.  The  events 
of  1 983  set  a  precedent  for  a  new  round  of  economic  bickering  and 
regional  finger  pointing  that  delayed  meaningful  reform  another 
seven  years. 

Inflation  and  Foreign  Debt 

Inflation  continued  to  spiral  during  the  1980s.  In  1987  it  had 
reached  150  percent  annually;  by  early  1989  it  had  reached  1,950 
percent.  In  the  same  period,  foreign  debt  rose,  unemployment  re- 
mained high,  living  standards  fell,  and  regional  economic  dispari- 
ties widened. 


163 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

In  1988  Yugoslavia  had  the  highest  per  capita  foreign  debt  in 
Europe,  totaling  over  US$20  billion  (see  table  18,  Appendix).  In 
May  1988,  the  Yugoslav  government  signed  an  agreement  with 
the  IMF  that  provided  new  foreign  loans  and  rescheduled  the  debt, 
in  return  for  which  the  government  agreed  to  cut  inflation  by  care- 
fully limiting  expansion  of  domestic  bank  credits.  This  was  the  first 
attempt  to  use  monetary  policy  to  control  Yugoslav  inflation. 

Living  Standards 

When  the  world  recession  of  1979  forced  many  Yugoslav  guest 
workers  to  return  home,  strong  political  pressure  forced  social  sector 
enterprises  to  take  up  the  slack  by  hiring  surplus  workers.  This 
caused  social  sector  productivity  to  fall  by  20  percent  from  1979 
to  1985;  real  personal  income  of  social  sector  employees  dropped 
25  percent  and,  despite  the  forced  overemployment,  unemploy- 
ment in  this  sector  increased  from  14  percent  in  1984  to  nearly 
20  percent  in  1989.  In  1989  an  estimated  60  percent  of  Yugoslav 
workers  lived  at  or  below  the  minimum  income  level  guaranteed 
by  the  state,  and  the  standard  of  living  had  fallen  by  40  percent 
since  1982 — returning  that  indicator  to  the  level  of  the  mid-1960s. 
Average  monthly  take-home  pay  for  an  employee  in  the  social  sector 
was  the  equivalent  of  US$170  in  1989.  Yugoslav  officials  estimat- 
ed that  closing  unprofitable  enterprises  under  the  1990  reforms 
might  cause  2  million  more  workers  to  lose  their  jobs  in  the  early 
1990s. 

Regional  Disparities 

The  substantial  autonomy  given  subnational  governments  in 
managing  their  own  economic  development  prevented  the  six 
republics  and  two  provinces  from  developing  cross-boundary  eco- 
nomic relationships,  and  the  political  fragmentation  of  Yugosla- 
via's uniquely  loose  federal  structure  stymied  efficient  exchange 
of  goods  and  services.  Stark  economic  disparities  among  regions 
remained  unmitigated  throughout  the  1980s  despite  numerous  fed- 
eral programs  to  redistribute  wealth  by  integrating  the  natural 
wealth  of  poorer  regions  (such  as  the  coal  and  minerals  of  Kosovo) 
into  the  national  economy. 

The  three  northern  republics,  Slovenia,  Croatia,  and  most  of 
Serbia,  emphasized  high  technology  in  building  production  capacity 
and  attracting  foreign  investment.  By  contrast,  the  less  developed 
southern  regions,  especially  Kosovo,  Macedonia,  Montenegro,  and 
southern  Serbia,  stressed  traditional,  labor-intensive,  low-paying 
economic  activity  such  as  textile  manufacture,  agriculture,  and  han- 
dicrafts. This  contrast  produced  sharp  differences  in  employment, 


164 


The  Economy 


investment,  income  potential,  and  social  services  among  the  eight 
political  units  of  the  federation.  For  example,  in  the  late  1980s  aver- 
age personal  income  per  social  sector  worker  in  Macedonia  was 
half  that  of  a  similar  worker  in  Slovenia.  Especially  in  Kosovo  and 
Macedonia,  poor  economic  and  social  conditions  exacerbated  long- 
standing ethnic  animosities  and  periodically  ignited  uprisings  that 
threatened  civil  war  (see  Regional  Political  Issues,  ch.  4). 

Meanwhile,  the  federal  government  continued  to  divert  the  earn- 
ings of  prosperous  Slovenia  and  Croatia  into  its  Fund  for  Under- 
developed Regions  in  the  late  1980s.  The  Slovenes,  who  contributed 
25  percent  of  Yugoslavia's  hard-currency  export  earnings  in  1989, 
were  especially  irritated  by  the  requirement  to  pay  as  much  as  20 
percent  of  the  republic's  income  to  subsidize  nonproductive  en- 
terprises in  other  republics;  this  issue  fueled  the  drive  for  Sloveni- 
an secession.  In  1990  Slovenian  leaders  announced  curtailment  of 
their  contribution  to  the  Fund  for  Underdeveloped  Regions  be- 
cause they  had  lost  hope  that  the  mismanaged  central  government 
would  ever  invest  their  earnings  profitably  and  because  the  local 
economy  was  declining.  Croatia  threatened  similar  action  if  the 
federal  government  did  not  make  concessions.  By  this  time,  eco- 
nomic autonomy  and  membership  in  the  EEC  had  become  attrac- 
tive and  plausible  alternatives  for  Slovenia  and  Croatia  (see 
Slovenia;  Croatia,  ch.  4). 

The  Reforms  of  1990 

In  December  1989,  the  Markovic  government  presented  an  eco- 
nomic reform  package.  The  program  was  actually  a  continuation 
of  a  1989  reform  that  attempted  to  introduce  a  "united  market  econ- 
omy" compatible  with  the  existing  self-management  system.  Of 
the  twenty-four  laws  included,  the  Federal  Assembly  passed  seven- 
teen outright;  six  remained  provisional.  At  the  heart  of  the  pro- 
gram's monetary  reform  was  a  new  "heavy"  dinar,  worth  10,000 
old  dinars,  pegged  to  the  deutsche  mark,  and  convertible  with  all 
Western  currencies. 

Wages  were  frozen  and  income  pegged  to  rates  18  to  32  percent 
higher  than  wage  rates  of  December  15,  1989.  Price  controls  were 
removed  on  85  percent  of  commodities.  The  only  exceptions  were 
essential  categories  such  as  electricity,  fuels,  medicine,  raw  metals 
and  minerals,  and  rail,  postal,  and  telephone  services,  which  re- 
mained under  government  control. 

The  program  strengthened  existing  bankruptcy  and  liquida- 
tion laws  forbidding  state  subsidy  of  enterprises  and  banks  operat- 
ing at  a  loss,  and  bankrupt  enterprises  no  longer  received  bank 
loans.  At  the  time  of  the  1990  reforms,  one-quarter  to  one- third  of 


165 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Yugoslavia's  27,600  enterprises  were  showing  losses,  and  the  debts 
of  100  Yugoslav  banks  totaled  US$2  billion  to  US$3  billion.  To 
mitigate  the  inevitable  effects  of  massive  layoffs  from  enterprise 
closings,  the  program  allotted  US$150  million  in  aid  to  the  poorest 
regions,  primarily  in  the  south,  and  US$100  million  for  social  secu- 
rity and  unemployment  compensation.  An  anticipated  foreign  loan 
of  US$500  million  was  to  pay  for  those  allotments.  The  West  con- 
tributed US$1  billion  in  1989  to  cancel  the  deficit  in  the  banking 
system  and  implement  the  new  reforms,  and  as  much  as  US$4  bil- 
lion more  was  promised  if  the  program  took  effect. 

Although  Markovic's  entire  package  was  not  accepted  by  the 
Federal  Assembly,  the  new  program  had  immediate  effects  and 
received  mostly  positive  reactions  in  Yugoslav  society.  By  April 
1990,  the  monthly  inflation  rate  had  dropped  to  zero,  from  its  De- 
cember 1989  monthly  rate  of  64.3  percent.  The  revaluation  of  the 
dinar  was  credited  with  an  export  increase  of  2 1  percent  and  an 
import  increase  of  32  percent  in  the  first  four  months  of  1990,  as 
well  as  an  increase  of  US$3  billion  in  foreign  currency  reserves 
in  the  first  six  months  of  1990.  By  mid- 1990  the  government  was 
claiming  1,200  new  joint  investment  deals  with  foreign  firms,  worth 
an  estimated  US$588  million,  and  a  total  of  10,200  new  enterprises 
formed.  Industrial  productivity  fell  by  8.7  percent,  however,  be- 
cause of  the  extreme  monetary  controls  used  to  decrease  the  money 
supply  and  stop  inflation  and  because  of  the  large  number  of  un- 
profitable enterprises  closed  by  the  reforms.  Domestic  investment 
slowed  drastically,  but  the  reforms  brought  much  less  civil  unrest 
than  anticipated.  Some  industries  continued  paying  wages  unrelated 
to  productivity,  nullifying  the  incentive  effect  of  federal  wage  re- 
strictions. 

The  initial  phase  of  the  Markovic  reform  package  was  a  six-month 
preliminary  step.  When  phase  two  began  in  mid- 1990,  policy  mak- 
ers began  seeking  nonmonetary  controls  for  inflation,  encourag- 
ing banks  to  keep  interest  rates  down,  funding  an  agency  for 
development  of  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises,  and  reshap- 
ing investment  incentives.  The  overall  goal  of  these  steps  was  to 
mitigate  the  initial  shock  effect  of  the  austerity  program  and  gradu- 
ally allow  market  forces  to  stimulate  a  new  round  of  investment 
geared  to  private  enterprise.  The  next  round  of  constitutional 
amendments,  introduced  in  1990,  included  provisions  to  facilitate 
large-scale  changes  of  public  to  private  ownership,  to  reform  tax 
policy  to  encourage  private  investment,  and  to  create  a  new  credit 
distribution  role  for  the  National  Bank  of  Yugoslavia.  After  the 
first  stage  of  reform,  progress  was  uneven;  in  1990  many  indus- 
tries remained  under  obstructionist  political  appointees  who  had 


166 


The  Economy 


no  stake  in  overall  economic  progress.  Resistance  was  especially 
strong  in  Serbia,  where  one  in  three  enterprises  was  unprofitable 
at  the  end  of  1990.  Even  the  optimistic  Markovic  cautioned  that 
future  steps  in  economic  reform  would  cause  additional  social  dis- 
comfort, but  in  1990  Yugoslav  economic  planning  finally  had  made 
a  discernible  break  with  its  ineffectual  past. 

Several  useful  books  and  essays  on  the  Yugoslav  economy  are 
available  in  English.  The  Economy  of  Yugoslavia  by  Fred  Singleton 
and  Bernard  Carter,  though  dated,  provides  a  comprehensive 
historical  and  structural  view  of  the  Yugoslav  economy.  Harold 
Lydall's  Yugoslavia  in  Crisis  fully  analyzes  the  economic  situation 
of  Yugoslavia  at  the  end  of  the  1980s  and  the  systemic  problems 
that  created  that  situation.  Several  chapters  of  Yugoslavia  in  the  1980s, 
edited  by  Pedro  Ramet,  analyze  the  economic  crisis  of  the  early 
1980s,  forecast  future  developments,  and  provide  abundant  statis- 
tics. Yugoslavia:  A  Fractured  Federalism,  edited  by  Dennison  Rusinow, 
contains  two  chapters  that  describe  the  causes  and  results  of  Yu- 
goslav political-economic  policy  making  in  the  1980s.  The  Yugo- 
slav government's  Statisticki  godisnjak  Jugoslavije  (Statistical  Year- 
book of  Yugoslavia),  published  in  Serbo-Croatian  with  an  English 
key,  lists  exhaustive  statistics  on  all  sectors  of  the  economy,  as  well 
as  economic  indicators  since  1970.  (For  further  information  and 
complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


167 


Josip  Broz  Tito 


THE  SOCIALIST  FEDERAL  REPUBLIC  of  Yugoslavia  (So- 
cijalisticka  Federativna  Republika  Jugoslavia — SFRJ)  came  into 
existence  in  1945  as  a  state  with  nominally  socialist  political  insti- 
tutions, dominated  until  1990  by  a  single  communist  party.  In  that 
forty-five-year  period,  the  country's  political  structure  evolved  in 
three  major  stages:  as  an  orthodox  member  of  the  monolithic  Soviet- 
led  communist  alliance  (1945-48);  as  a  nonaligned  communist  dic- 
tatorship (1948-80)  whose  slogan  was  "brotherhood  and  unity" 
among  its  constituent  republics;  and  as  a  decentralized  federation, 
with  no  dominant  leader  and  most  aspects  of  political  power  cen- 
tered at  regional  levels. 

During  the  last  two  stages,  Yugoslav  political  life  emphasized 
"development  from  below,"  a  principle  that  gave  substantial  eco- 
nomic and  political  decision-making  power  to  local  communes  and 
self-managed  industrial  enterprises.  This  feature,  unique  to  Yu- 
goslavia and  present  even  during  the  powerful  dictatorship  of  Josip 
Broz  Tito  (1945-80),  focused  political  power  in  official  and  un- 
official local  groupings.  Also  unique  to  Yugoslavia  was  the  con- 
cept of  statutory  autonomy  in  nearly  all  governmental  functions 
for  each  of  the  six  republics  in  the  federation.  The  inefficiency  of 
the  national  political  system  was  masked  until  1980  by  the  charis- 
ma of  Tito,  who  provided  enough  national  unity  for  economic  and 
political  reforms  to  be  accomplished  when  necessary. 

As  early  as  1948,  the  Yugoslav  system  experimented  with  polit- 
ical configurations  unknown  in  previous  Marxist  or  Stalinist  prac- 
tice. Although  Yugoslavia  began  political  reforms  far  ahead  of  other 
European  communist  states,  opposition  political  parties  only  be- 
came legal  in  the  late  1980s,  a  development  stimulated  partly  by 
reform  elsewhere  in  Eastern  Europe.  The  League  of  Communists 
of  Yugoslavia  (LCY — see  Glossary)  retained  substantial  control  over 
the  government's  appointive  and  legislative  functions,  but  inno- 
vations made  party  control  of  the  country's  diverse  ethnic  and  eco- 
nomic groups  problematic  as  early  as  the  1960s;  the  political 
management  of  economic  reform,  urgently  needed  by  1980,  was 
complicated  by  the  same  factors. 

Tito  was  aware  that  without  him  the  Yugoslav  political  system 
would  be  a  fragile  entity.  Therefore,  in  his  last  years  of  power  he 
attempted  to  restructure  the  system.  His  preparations  for  the  re- 
gime that  would  follow  him  emphasized  decentralization  of  power 


171 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

to  accommodate  the  unique  structure  of  the  Yugoslav  federation: 
six  republics  and  two  provinces  of  widely  varying  political  and  ethnic 
backgrounds,  as  well  as  contrasting  economic  levels.  To  prevent 
yet  another  occurrence  of  the  hostile  fragmentation  for  which  the 
Balkans  had  become  a  symbol,  Tito  tried  to  equalize  the  political 
power  of  the  republics,  minimizing  the  potential  for  domination 
by  one  republic  that  might  stimulate  others  to  secede  from  the  fed- 
eration. 

The  institutionalized  political  balance  that  followed  Tito's  thirty- 
five  years  in  office  had  several  effects.  Regional  power  meant  that 
federal  decision  making  required  unanimous  consensus  among  the 
republics.  The  veto  power  of  each  republic  promoted  pressure  pol- 
itics and  negotiations  outside  statutory  institutions  in  the  process 
of  reaching  consensus;  public  accountability  for  decisions  was  thus 
obscured.  At  the  same  time,  the  unanimity  requirement  and  equal 
rotation  of  top  government  positions  among  the  republics  and 
provinces  fostered  regional  participation,  provided  an  image  of  na- 
tional unity,  and  prevented  the  emergence  of  a  new  dictator.  In 
fact,  no  strong  national  leader  emerged  in  Yugoslavia  throughout 
the  1980s.  The  system  gave  the  six  republics  free  exercise  of  for- 
mal and  informal  political  leverage  on  behalf  of  their  own  agen- 
das, which  often  clashed. 

Historical  regional  animosities  and  ambitions  resurfaced  in  the 
first  post-Tito  decade.  Serbia,  with  the  strongest  leadership  of  any 
republic,  revived  the  concept  of  a  strong  centralized  state  under 
Serbian  domination;  but  other  republics,  defending  their  sovereignty 
in  a  decentralized  Yugoslavia,  used  Tito's  consensual  policy-making 
apparatus  to  block  Serbian  ambitions.  In  the  process,  the  LCY, 
sole  legal  all- Yugoslav  party  for  forty-five  years,  split  in  1990  over 
the  question  of  how  much  political  diversity  should  be  tolerated 
at  the  national  level.  At  that  point,  the  viability  of  the  federation 
(whose  demise  was  widely  predicted  as  early  as  1980)  came  under 
even  more  serious  scrutiny. 

Political  Evolution  after  1945 

From  1945  to  1980,  Josip  Broz  Tito  was  the  only  leader  of  the 
Socialist  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia.  His  influence  on  Yugoslav 
politics  began  several  years  before  the  war  and  remained  formida- 
ble a  decade  after  his  death.  Tito  presided  over  a  series  of  political 
experiments  that  separated  Yugoslavia  from  the  Stalinist  model  of 
centralized  decision  making.  Tito's  political  culture  replaced  that 
model  with  autonomous  grass-roots  political  institutions;  nonethe- 
less, it  retained  the  external  trappings  and  ideology  of  a  monolithic 
Marxist  state.  Before  the  end  of  Tito's  regime,  however,  the  inherent 


172 


Government  and  Politics 


contradiction  of  that  combination  began  to  erode  national  institu- 
tions, including  the  LCY. 

Breaking  with  the  Soviet  Union 

Several  years  before  World  War  II,  Tito  had  survived  Joseph 
V.  Stalin's  purge  of  Yugoslav  communists  in  the  Soviet  Union. 
In  fact,  Stalin  had  sent  him  back  to  Yugoslavia  to  reinvigorate  the 
party  there.  After  the  war,  Tito  was  able  to  unite  the  country  be- 
cause his  leadership  of  the  Partisan  (see  Glossary)  forces  against 
the  Nazis  had  made  him  a  charismatic  national  hero  and  put  his 
followers  in  a  position  to  assume  power.  Under  Tito's  patronage, 
an  entire  generation  of  wartime  Partisans  became  the  postwar  ruling 
class  of  Yugoslavia. 

In  1948  Yugoslavia  received  international  attention  as  the  first 
country  to  break  from  Stalin's  monolithic  communist  alliance,  and 
the  country  subsequently  maintained  an  independent  foreign  policy 
that  made  it  a  prototypical  postwar  "nonaligned  nation."  Shortly 
after  his  break  with  Stalin,  Tito  began  a  process  of  guaranteeing 
political  equality  to  the  constituent  republics.  At  that  time,  Tito 
deemed  a  degree  of  regional  autonomy  necessary  to  maintain  his 
own  internal  political  support  because  the  external  backing  of  the 
communist  alliance  no  longer  provided  legitimacy  to  his  regime. 

Tito's  first  constitution  (1946)  was  modeled  on  the  Soviet  con- 
stitution of  1936.  This  constitution  included  direct  communist  party 
control  over  all  aspects  of  state  activity,  no  recognition  of  the  con- 
stituent republics  as  political  entities,  and  no  stipulation  of  individual 
civil  liberties.  Tito  refused  to  make  his  country  fully  subservient 
to  the  Soviet  alliance,  however,  and  in  1948  Stalin  ejected  Yugo- 
slavia from  the  Cominform  (Communist  Information  Bureau — 
see  Glossary).  From  that  time,  Tito  fashioned  an  independent 
political  leadership  that  soon  moved  away  from  the  rigid  state  domi- 
nation of  Stalinism. 

The  Sixth  Party  Congress  (1952)  was  a  watershed  of  Yugoslav 
political  change,  driven  primarily  by  the  need  to  prove  that  Yu- 
goslavia could  create  a  form  of  socialism  superior  to  the  Stalinist 
version  from  which  it  had  recently  split.  In  that  meeting,  liberal 
forces  led  by  Milovan  Djilas  (a  long-time  close  adviser  of  Tito)  creat- 
ed a  constitution  that  partially  separated  party  and  state  political 
functions  and  restored  some  political  rights  to  the  constituent  repub- 
lics and  some  civil  rights  to  individuals.  At  that  time,  constitutional 
foundations  were  also  built  for  workers'  control  over  enterprises 
and  expanded  local  government  power.  The  Federal  People's  As- 
sembly established  by  the  1953  constitution  contained  two  houses — 
the  Federal  Chamber,  directly  representing  the  regions,  and  the 


173 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Chamber  of  Producers,  representing  economic  enterprises  and  work- 
er groups.  The  federal  government  executive  branch  (the  Federal 
Executive  Council — FEC)  included  only  the  five  secretariats  deal- 
ing with  national  affairs  and  foreign  policy.  Foreign  policy  became 
the  most  important  function  of  the  FEC.  The  LCY  retained  ex- 
clusive political  control,  based  on  the  Leninist  credo  that  the  state 
bureaucracy  would  wither  away  and  that  a  multiparty  system  would 
only  bring  more  cumbersome  bureaucratic  institutions. 

Through  the  remainder  of  the  1950s,  the  economic  decentrali- 
zation of  the  1953  constitution  increased  friction  among  the  repub- 
lics, which  sought  advantages  in  national  allocation  and  resource 
redistribution  policy.  By  1960  this  friction  generated  a  new  wave 
of  constitutional  change,  aimed  at  preserving  regional  autonomy 
while  restoring  economic  policy  decisions  to  the  federal  level. 

The  1963  Constitution 

The  regional  divisions  that  prompted  constitutional  change  also 
delayed  concrete  action  by  two  years,  as  the  constitution's  framers 
sought  language  satisfactory  to  all  political  factions.  By  1963  a  new 
constitution  had  been  prepared  under  the  guidance  of  Eduard 
Kardelj,  Tito's  chief  theoretician,  with  substantial  input  from  liberal 
legal  scholars.  The  new  document  reflected  the  perceived  need  for 
recentralization:  the  parliamentary  Federal  Assembly  (Skupstina) 
was  divided  into  one  general  chamber,  the  Federal  Chamber,  and 
four  chambers  given  specific  bureaucratic  responsibilities.  In  an 
effort  to  end  regional  conflict  and  promote  national  representation 
of  the  Yugoslav  people,  the  constitution  directed  that  individual 
republics  be  represented  only  in  the  Chamber  of  Nationalities,  a 
part  of  the  Federal  Chamber.  This  provision  was  especially  im- 
portant in  ensuring  continued  contributions  from  all  regions  to  fed- 
eral development  funds  for  the  poorer  republics. 

Other  provisions  of  the  new  constitution  increased  decentrali- 
zation instead  of  reducing  it.  Tito  retained  his  position  as  presi- 
dent of  the  federation  but  renounced  his  state  position  as  president 
of  the  FEC ,  a  change  that  further  separated  party  and  state  func- 
tions. The  1963  constitution  also  introduced  the  concept  of  rota- 
tion, which  prohibited  the  holding  of  higher  or  lower  level  executive 
positions  for  more  than  two  four-year  terms.  Other  notable  provi- 
sions extended  human  and  civil  rights  and  established  constitution- 
ally guaranteed  court  procedures.  All  these  provisions  were  unique 
among  the  constitutional  systems  of  contemporaneous  communist 
states. 

Although  the  1963  constitution  reflected  the  liberal  leanings  of 
Yugoslav  leadership  in  those  years,  substantial  power  existed  outside 


174 


Government  and  Politics 


the  institutional  structure.  Aleksandar  Rankovic,  state  secretary 
in  charge  of  the  secret  police,  led  an  obstructionist  bloc  that  op- 
posed economic  reform  in  the  1960s  and  advocated  a  return  to  the 
pre- 1953  strong  party  role.  In  the  many  deadlocks  between  the  liber- 
al and  obstructionist  groups  in  this  period,  Tito  was  always  the 
final  arbiter.  He  generally  supported  economic  reform  but  resist- 
ed decentralization  of  state  power. 

Post-Rankovic  Diversification 

In  1966  the  party's  liberal  majority  convinced  Tito  to  oust 
Rankovic  by  proving  that  the  security  chief  had  grossly  abused  his 
power.  With  secret  police  activity  reduced  and  the  conservatives 
lacking  a  leader,  new  political  forces  blossomed  in  Yugoslavia.  In 
1967  a  series  of  constitutional  amendments,  instigated  by  Bosnia 
and  Hercegovina,  enlarged  the  role  of  the  Chamber  of  Nationali- 
ties in  federal  decision  making.  The  amendments  specified  separate 
functions  for  that  chamber  and  canceled  the  centralizing  force  the 
1963  constitution  had  exerted  on  the  Federal  Assembly.  A  new 
generation  of  younger,  more  pragmatic  leaders  began  replacing 
conservative,  older  party  members,  and  issues  of  nationalism  and 
economics  now  were  debated  hotly  and  openly  in  the  LCY.  With 
politicians  no  longer  allowed  to  hold  concurrent  federal  and  party 
positions,  the  bodies  of  state  government  grew  more  independent 
of  party  domination.  (In  the  next  twenty-plus  years,  however,  na- 
tional leaders  moved  constantly  from  party  to  state  positions  and 
back,  thus  largely  preserving  the  connection.) 

After  1966  the  Yugoslav  media  more  openly  criticized  govern- 
ment and  party  policy,  and  economic  enterprises  became  more  truly 
"self  managing."  In  1967  and  1968,  the  party  openly  debated 
whether  delegates  to  the  Federal  Assembly  could  ignore  constituent 
demands  to  take  an  "all- Yugoslav"  position.  Largely  because  most 
politicians  identified  such  a  position  with  Serbian  centralist  domi- 
nation, delegates  were  held  to  strict  pursuit  of  regional  interests. 
Discussion  of  such  issues  signaled  the  rekindling  of  ethnic  nation- 
alist conflicts  that  had  been  muffled  by  totalitarianism  in  the  past, 
and  the  resolution  of  the  delegate  responsibility  question  indicat- 
ed ascendancy  of  nationalist  forces.  Beginning  in  1966,  ethnic  con- 
flicts sparked  frequent  demonstrations  throughout  the  country. 
Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  complained  in  1966  that  development 
funding  was  insufficient;  the  longstanding  rivalry  between  Serbia 
and  Croatia  resurfaced  in  1967;  and  Albanians  demonstrated  in 
Kosovo  and  Macedonia  in  1968.  A  national-liberal  coalition  of 
Croatia,  Slovenia,  and  Macedonia  fought  for  additional  decentrali- 
zation and  against  anticipated  Serbian  efforts  to  dominate  the  federal 


175 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

government.  Although  that  alliance  disintegrated  in  1969,  its  liberal 
approach  dominated  policy  making  until  1971 .  In  an  effort  to  regain 
control  of  the  republics,  the  LCY  decentralized  its  structure,  giv- 
ing much  more  decision-making  power  to  the  party  at  the  repub- 
lic level  and  lower. 

In  both  party  and  state  political  structures,  the  new  regional  in- 
fluence enormously  complicated  federal  policy  making.  Now  ev- 
ery decision  required  consultation  and  compromise.  The  FEC  began 
consulting  its  equivalents  in  each  republic  before  performing  its 
role  in  national  executive  decision  making.  The  compromise  process 
often  led  to  stalemate,  especially  on  the  explosive  issue  of  econom- 
ic development  in  the  richer  versus  the  poorer  republics.  To  stream- 
line the  process,  Tito  intervened  in  1969  to  form  the  new  Executive 
Bureau  for  the  party  Presidium.  The  Executive  Bureau  was  a  central 
party  organ  empowered  to  mediate  disputes  among  the  parties  of 
the  republics.  (The  party  Presidium  itself,  comprising  representa- 
tives from  each  republic,  was  inherently  fragmented  along  region- 
al lines.)  Later  that  year,  however,  the  Executive  Bureau  was 
helpless  when  demonstrations  in  Slovenia  over  distribution  of  World 
Bank  (see  Glossary)  funds  prompted  divisive  statements  by  party 
leaders  of  other  republics  and  strong  Slovenian  criticism  of  the  sys- 
tem. In  1970  the  Croatian  party  began  a  protracted,  powerful  cam- 
paign against  the  existing  federal  system,  which  it  described  as  a 
tool  for  Serbian  domination  of  the  other  republics.  The  chief  goal 
of  the  Croatian  campaign  was  to  change  federal  policy  so  that  a 
single  republic  could  veto  any  federal  action. 

Tito  again  responded  by  creating  a  new  federal  body,  this  time 
in  the  apparatus  of  the  state  rather  than  the  party.  Like  the  party's 
Executive  Bureau,  the  collective  State  Presidency  included  the  most 
qualified  representatives  of  each  republic  and  was  intended  to  pro- 
vide a  forum  for  national  compromise,  insulated  from  regional  pres- 
sures. Meanwhile,  the  outburst  of  ethnic  factionalism  that  surfaced 
in  the  late  1960s  became  especially  severe  in  Croatia.  Between  1969 
and  1971,  protracted  negotiations  for  new  amendments  to  the  fed- 
eral constitution  only  heightened  Croatian  separatism.  The  Croa- 
tian nationalists,  based  in  the  powerful  Matica  Hrvatska  cultural 
organization,  split  the  Croatian  party  and  launched  a  massive 
separatist  propaganda  campaign  that  resulted  in  serious  clashes  with 
ethnic  Serbs  in  Croatia. 

Political  Innovation  and  the  1974  Constitution 

Finally,  Tito  (himself  a  Croat)  quelled  the  separatist  movement 
by  purging  the  Croatian  party  in  1972.  The  Croatian  purge 
stemmed  the  demand  for  veto  power  by  individual  republics  and 


176 


Government  and  Politics 


paved  the  way  for  party  recentralization  and  ratification  of  the  con- 
stitutional amendments  promoted  by  Tito.  The  State  Presidency 
was  added  to  the  federal  structure  with  Tito  as  its  head,  once  again 
the  sole  symbol  of  both  party  and  state  leadership.  In  general,  be- 
ginning in  1972,  interregional  consensus  came  more  easily,  although 
members  of  central  party  organs  still  were  chosen  by  regional,  not 
central,  decision.  In  the  following  years,  Tito  was  able  to  create 
a  consensual  system  of  interrepublic  debate  and  compromise,  with 
constitutional  amendments  as  required.  That  process  culminated 
in  the  1974  Constitution,  which  ratified  and  adjusted  preceding 
changes  and  attempted  to  construct  a  system  that  would  survive 
Tito's  passing. 

The  1974  Constitution,  which  remained  in  effect  through  1990, 
only  partially  reversed  the  extreme  decentralization  of  the  early 
1970s.  With  406  original  articles,  it  was  one  of  the  longest  consti- 
tutions in  the  world.  It  added  elaborate  language  protecting  the 
socialist  self-management  system  from  state  interference  and  ex- 
panding representation  of  republics  and  provinces  in  all  electoral 
and  policy  forums.  The  Constitution  called  the  restructured  Fed- 
eral Assembly  the  highest  expression  of  the  self-management  sys- 
tem (see  Government  Structure,  this  ch.).  Accordingly,  it  prescribed 
a  complex  electoral  procedure  for  that  body,  beginning  with  the 
local  labor  and  political  organizations  (see  fig.  12).  Those  bodies 
were  to  elect  commune-level  assemblies,  which  then  would  elect 
assemblies  at  province  and  republic  level;  finally,  the  latter  groups 
would  elect  the  members  of  the  two  equal  components  of  the  Fed- 
eral Assembly,  the  Federal  Chamber  and  the  Chamber  of  Repub- 
lics and  Provinces.  Like  its  predecessor,  the  1974  Constitution  tried 
to  refine  the  balance  between  economic  and  ethnic  diversity  on  the 
one  hand  and  the  communist  ideal  of  social  unity  on  the  other. 

The  new  Constitution  also  reduced  the  State  Presidency  from 
twenty-three  to  nine  members,  with  equal  representation  for  each 
republic  and  province  and  an  ex-officio  position  for  the  president 
of  the  LCY.  The  party  tried  to  reactivate  its  role  in  guiding  na- 
tional policy  through  automatic  inclusion  of  the  party  chief  in  the 
State  Presidency.  That  practice  was  discontinued  in  1988,  when 
the  political  climate  called  for  further  separation  of  party  and  state 
functions.  This  reduced  the  State  Presidency  to  eight  members. 
The  1974  Constitution  also  expanded  protection  of  individual  rights 
and  court  procedures,  with  the  all-purpose  caveat  that  no  citizen 
could  use  those  freedoms  to  disrupt  the  prescribed  social  system. 
Finally,  Kosovo  and  Vojvodina,  the  two  constituent  provinces  of 
Serbia,  received  substantially  increased  autonomy,  including  de 
facto  veto  power  in  the  Serbian  parliament.  This  change  became 


177 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


FEDERAL 
ASSEMBLY  OF 
YUGOSLAVIA 


ASSEMBLIES 

OF  THE 
REPUBLICS 

AND 
PROVINCES 


comWine 
assemblies 


FEDERAL 
CHAMBER 


CHAMBER  OF 
REPUBLICS  AND 
PROVINCES 


ALL  CHAMBERS  ELECT 


DELEGATES 


DELEGATIONS 


CHAMBER  OF 
ASSOCIATED 
LABOR 


CHAMBER  OF 
COMMUNES 


ALL  CHAMBERS  ELECT 


CHAMBER  OF 
ASSOCIATED 
LABOR 


CHAMBER  OF 

LOCAL 
COMMUNITIES 


DELEGATES 


DELEGATES 


DELEGATIONS 


DELEGATES 


DELEGATIONS 


DELEGATIONS 


SOCIOPOLITICAL 
CHAMBER 


s=nn 


SOCIOPOLITICAL 
CHAMBER 


DELEGATES 

ECT 

WORKING 
PEOPLE  IN 
AGRICULTURE, 
HANDICRAFTS, 
ETC. 


WORKING 
PEOPLE  IN 
STATE  ORGANS 


WORKING 
PEOPLE  IN 
SOCIALIST 
SELF-MANAGING 
ECONOMY 


LOCAL 
COMMUNITIES 


SOCIOPOLITICAL 
ORGANIZATIONS 
(PARTY,  SOCIALIST 
ALLIANCE, 
TRADE  UNIONS, 

VETERANS' 
ORGANIZATION, 
YOUTH 
FEDERATION) 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Jovan  Djordjevic  (ed.),  Drustveno-politicki  sistem,  SFRJ, 
Belgrade,  1975,  462. 


Figure  12.  The  Delegate  System  of  Elections,  1990 

a  turbulent  issue  of  interrepublic  debate  in  post-Tito  Yugoslavia 
(see  Regional  Political  Issues,  this  ch.). 

In  practice,  despite  nominal  dispersal  of  power,  throughout  the 
1970s  the  power  of  the  LCY  rested  entirely  on  the  personal  leader- 
ship of  Tito  and  his  chief  theoretician  Kardelj.  In  1974  Tito  was 
elected  president  for  life  of  the  LCY,  and  the  new  Constitution 
gave  him  increased  powers  as  state  president.  The  new  provision 
strengthened  the  legitimacy  of  the  Yugoslav  regime  as  defender 
of  Marxism-Leninism. 

After  personally  intervening  in  the  Croatian  crisis  in  1971 ,  Tito 
gradually  withdrew  from  the  domestic  decision-making  process. 
He  continued  making  inspirational  speeches  to  party  cadres  and 
appointing  officials  of  the  party  Presidium,  but  by  1976  he  no  longer 


178 


Government  and  Politics 


presided  over  meetings  of  the  Presidium  or  the  State  Presidency. 
In  the  last  four  years  of  his  life,  Tito's  contact  with  day-to-day 
government  operations  decreased,  and  he  no  longer  used  his  im- 
mense prestige  to  break  policy  deadlocks. 

In  1977  Kardelj  attempted  to  lay  the  ideological  groundwork  for 
a  diversified  post-Tito  political  system.  In  his  The  Directions  of  De- 
velopment of  the  Political  System  of  Self -Management,  Kardelj  admitted 
that  pluralism  was  an  inevitable  fact  of  Yugoslav  political  life,  but 
he  insisted  that  this  pluralism  had  nothing  in  common  with  the 
pluralism  of  the  bourgeois  democracies  of  the  West.  In  Yugosla- 
via, he  said,  conflicting  interests  could  be  accommodated  within 
the  scope  of  the  LCY.  Kardelj  correctiy  identified  one  of  the  stron- 
gest forces  of  pluralism  as  the  principle  of  self-management  of  eco- 
nomic and  political  organizations,  which  was  greatly  expanded  in 
the  1974  Constitution.  The  trend  continued  in  1976,  when  the  Law 
on  Associated  Labor  prescribed  the  basic  organizations  of  associated 
labor  (BOALs)  and  self-management  agreements  of  enterprises  with 
the  government.  That  law  and  the  Constitution  not  only  provided 
new  building  blocks  for  the  Yugoslav  economy  but  also  codified 
political  decentralization  by  removing  centralized  control  and 
stimulating  the  growth  of  nonparty  interest  groups  (see  Adjustments 
in  the  1970s,  ch.  3).  "All-Yugoslav"  interests,  already  endangered 
by  regional  differences,  suffered  further  fragmentation  with  the  po- 
litical reforms  of  the  mid-1970s.  Individual  communists,  theoreti- 
cally given  the  role  of  integrating  society  for  the  common  good  of 
the  working  class,  succumbed  to  divided  loyalties  and  weak  cen- 
tral leadership. 

In  1979  the  Presidium,  chief  executive  body  of  the  LCY,  began 
annual  rotation  of  its  chairmanship.  After  Tito  died,  his  power  to 
name  Presidium  members  devolved  to  a  special  Presidium  commis- 
sion that  included  regional  party  leaders.  This  additional  step  toward 
party  decentralization  further  revealed  the  unique  stature  of  the  for- 
mer leader.  Rotation  of  the  Presidium  chairmanship  continued 
through  the  1980s  on  a  regular  schedule,  following  the  "nationality 
key"  that  divided  the  position  equally  among  the  eight  federal  juris- 
dictions; the  rotation  was  called  "the  most  elaborate  quota  system 
in  the  world. ' '  Although  he  devised  the  rotation  system  to  prevent 
party  domination  by  one  individual,  Tito  placed  great  importance 
on  a  strong  central  party  surviving  him.  By  1980,  however,  the  cen- 
trifugal political  forces  gradually  building  in  the  previous  fifteen 
years  had  already  eroded  the  single  party  structure.  And  the  ex- 
ample Tito  set  in  1948  by  abandoning  a  monolithic  world  com- 
munist movement  spoke  more  loudly  for  pragmatic  diversification 
than  any  of  his  pleas  thirty  years  later  for  national  party  unity. 


179 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Early  Post-Tito  Years 

As  expected,  Tito's  death  began  a  new  era  in  Yugoslav  politics, 
but  many  of  the  trends  of  the  1970s  continued.  Milka  Planinc  of 
Croatia  was  elected  prime  minister  in  1982,  amid  pledges  from  all 
quarters  to  continue  Tito's  policies.  Much  rhetoric  proclaimed  the 
need  for  drastic  reform,  but  formidable  bureaucratic  inertia  always 
blunted  the  impetus  for  change.  The  divisive  issues  that  Tito  had  held 
in  check  were  even  more  pronounced  after  his  death,  and  the  thor- 
oughly divided  power  structure  that  succeeded  him  could  manage  on- 
ly superficially  the  major  problems  that  escalated  through  the  decade. 

Eight  amendments  were  added  to  the  Constitution  in  1981.  Their 
main  purpose  was  to  consolidate  the  elements  of  the  rotational 
government  that  had  been  developed  at  various  times  in  preceding 
years.  Significantly,  for  the  first  time  in  a  Yugoslav  constitution, 
the  term  "collective  body"  was  now  used  in  reference  to  leadership 
policy.  One  1981  amendment  eliminated  Tito's  office  of  Yugoslav 
president  for  life,  the  functions  of  which  devolved  to  the  nine-member 
rotating  State  Presidency. 

The  Twelfth  Party  Congress  of  1982,  the  first  without  Tito,  was  ex- 
pected to  lay  new  political  ground  and  provide  strong  direction.  But 
all  progress  was  blocked  by  the  familiar  regional  stalemate  between 
the  centralizers  and  the  decentralizes  within  the  party.  With  no 
strong  figure  to  act  as  ultimate  arbiter,  the  Twelfth  Party  Congress 
began  a  new  stage  of  strident,  fruitless  debate  in  the  LCY.  Significant- 
ly, the  centralizers  now  based  their  position  not  on  the  Leninist 
idea  of  the  party  as  national  vanguard  but  on  the  pragmatic  argu- 
ment that  the  country  would  collapse  economically  without  strong 
central  leadership.  Throughout  the  1980s,  Serbia  was  the  foremost 
exponent  of  stronger  federal  government,  while  Slovenia  and  Croatia 
were  the  foremost  exponents  of  regional  autonomy.  With  some  varia- 
tion, the  same  division  defined  national  debate  on  many  other  issues. 

Reform  in  the  1980s 

In  1982  the  new  Yugoslav  government  was  faced  with  a  serious 
economic  crisis  that  included  rising  unemployment,  rising  prices, 
and  national  debt.  In  1983  the  national  sense  of  crisis  was  strong 
enough  that  the  Federal  Assembly  passed  austerity  measures  that 
temporarily  curbed  spending  and  controlled  inflation  (see  Managing 
the  Crisis  of  the  1980s,  ch.  3).  In  1983  the  Long-Term  Economic 
Stabilization  Program  (also  known  as  the  Krajgher  Commission 
Report)  was  issued,  after  two  years  of  debate,  as  the  official  blueprint 
for  economic  reform. 

The  Krajgher  Commission  Report  was  evidence  that  even  in 


180 


Federal  Assembly  (Skupstina)  building,  Belgrade 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 

1983  most  Yugoslav  politicians  agreed  in  theory  that  development 
of  a  market  economy  was  necessary  to  restimulate  growth  through- 
out the  country.  But  in  practice  this  would  have  meant  a  drastic 
reduction  in  the  policy-making  role  of  the  LCY,  hence  a  total  repu- 
diation of  the  Tito  legacy.  Free  enterprise  also  would  mean  that 
government  agencies  at  all  levels  would  lose  their  control  of  eco- 
nomic affairs.  For  these  reasons,  market  reform  met  strong  institu- 
tional resistance.  The  alternative  reform,  a  return  to  Stalinist  central 
planning,  had  few  Yugoslav  advocates  in  the  mid-1980s  and  was 
totally  discredited  by  the  fall  of  central  planning  governments  across 
Eastern  Europe  in  the  late  1980s. 

While  the  government  debated  reform,  the  self-management  sys- 
tem further  dispersed  control  over  economic  and  financial  resources 
vital  to  the  national  economy.  In  the  1960s  and  1970s,  individual 
enterprises  had  formed  alliances  with  local  party  machines,  pro- 
tecting uneconomical  industries  by  giving  them  disproportionate 
influence  on  policy  making  and  eroding  regional  support  for  price 
and  wage  controls.  Many  of  the  short-term  austerity  measures  of 
1983  were  relaxed  by  the  national  government  even  before  their 
expiration  dates.  The  national  political  system  then  drifted  into  in- 
action, ignoring  the  need  for  fundamental  economic  reform  that 
had  been  obvious  since  1980. 


181 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Thirteenth  Party  Congress  briefly  rekindled  activism  in  1986 
by  restating  the  conclusions  of  the  Long-Term  Economic  Stabili- 
zation Program  and  by  officially  recognizing  serious  economic 
defects  such  as  insufficient  support  for  the  relatively  profitable  pri- 
vate enterprise  sector  and  unwise  investment  of  foreign  capital.  The 
next  years  produced  many  official  lists  of  resolutions  and  targets, 
all  politically  unpopular  and  aimed  at  imposing  short-term  austerity 
in  order  to  effect  long-term  economic  reform.  Beginning  in  1987, 
austerity  wage  freezes  and  plant  closings  were  met  by  industrial 
strikes  of  increasing  magnitude,  and  for  the  next  two  years  govern- 
ment policy  wavered  between  hard-line  measures  (such  as  threats 
to  use  the  army  to  break  strikes)  and  accommodation  (such  as 
replacement  of  unpopular  party  and  state  figures  in  Montenegro). 
Strikes  contributed  to  the  1988  fall  of  Prime  Minister  Branko  Miku- 
lic,  and  they  threatened  to  topple  Mikulic's  successor,  Ante  Mar- 
kovic,  in  1989. 

The  1980s  also  brought  many  proposals  for  political  reform,  some 
of  which  were  drastic.  Suggestions  included  abolishing  all  politi- 
cal parties  and  running  the  system  through  citizens'  associations; 
holding  multi-candidate  elections  within  the  party;  and  introduc- 
ing a  full  multi-party  system  that  would  have  meant  electoral  com- 
petition for  the  LCY.  Once  the  pattern  of  intraparty  debate  was 
established  at  the  1982  Twelfth  Party  Congress  of  the  LCY,  vari- 
ations on  all  these  themes  appeared  in  official  and  unofficial  fo- 
rums throughout  the  decade.  After  the  Twelfth  Party  Congress, 
Najdan  Pasic,  a  Serbian  member  of  the  LCY  Central  Committee, 
wrote  a  letter  summarizing  Serbian  reform  demands  to  alleviate 
the  stalemate  of  Tito's  government  by  consensus.  The  working 
group  that  grew  from  these  demands  took  three  years  to  produce 
its  "Critical  Analysis  of  the  Functioning  of  the  Political  System 
of  Socialist  Self-Management,"  to  which  over  200  individuals  con- 
tributed. The  final  report  was  so  nebulous  that  both  sides  of  the 
centralization  issue  claimed  it  as  a  victory.  In  1984  the  League  of 
Communists  of  Serbia  officially  demanded  repeal  of  autonomy  in 
Kosovo  and  Vojvodina,  plus  reinforced  federal  government  pow- 
er, liberalized  control  of  economic  enterprises,  and  democratiza- 
tion of  the  electoral  system.  The  main  result  of  this  proposal  was 
angry  dissent  in  Kosovo  and  Vojvodina.  In  1986  a  lengthy 
memorandum  by  the  Serbian  Academy  of  Sciences  attacked  the 
1974  Constitution  for  blocking  Serbian  control  of  its  provinces  and 
criticized  the  party  for  failure  to  implement  the  program  of  the  Kraj- 
gher  Commission.  The  memorandum  brought  polemical  responses 
from  Kosovo  and  Vojvodina,  as  well  as  official  censure  of  the  acade- 
my by  the  party. 


182 


Government  and  Politics 


At  the  Thirteenth  Party  Congress  in  1986,  advocates  of  strong 
central  government  gained  wide  support  among  all  delegations  ex- 
cept the  Slovenian.  There  was  general  agreement  that  decentrali- 
zation had  led  to  a  dangerous  proliferation  of  narrow,  technocratic 
local  interests,  beyond  the  control  of  the  LCY.  Centralist  forces 
won  a  victory  when  a  new  party  statute  transferred  election  of  party 
Central  Committee  members  from  the  republic  parties  to  the  LCY 
party  congress  and  gave  the  national  party  the  right  to  curb  devia- 
tion by  republican  parties.  In  a  massive  transition  of  party  power, 
only  38  of  the  party's  165-member  Central  Committee  were  reelec- 
ted at  the  Thirteenth  Party  Congress. 

The  Thirteenth  Party  Congress  also  formed  a  commission  to  write 
a  new  series  of  constitutional  amendments.  Amendments  proposed 
in  1987  sought  to  reduce  the  obstructive  influence  of  decentralized 
government.  The  federal  planning  system  was  to  be  strengthened, 
and  the  relations  of  the  republics  and  provinces  to  the  federal 
government  were  to  be  redefined.  Several  aspects  of  economic  re- 
form were  addressed,  but  the  main  impetus  behind  the  amend- 
ments was  the  Serbian  drive  to  regain  control  over  its  provinces. 
After  twenty-two  months  of  heated  regional  debate,  the  amend- 
ments were  approved  by  the  Federal  Assembly.  Because  of  their 
broad  application  in  economics,  government,  and  the  party,  they 
were  expected  to  form  the  basis  for  yet  another  completely  new 
Yugoslav  constitution  in  the  early  1990s.  The  idea  of  a  new  con- 
stitution was  supported  most  strongly  by  the  Serbs,  who  saw  it  as 
a  vehicle  to  officially  ratify  their  control  of  Kosovo  and  Vojvodina 
and  achieve  at  least  parity  with  the  other  republics  (which  had  no 
such  problematic  semiautonomous  provinces).  An  estimated  6  mil- 
lion people  took  part  in  public  debate  on  what  finally  emerged  in 
1988  as  thirty-nine  amendments. 

The  Leadership  Crisis 

A  political  crisis  occurred  in  late  1988  when  Prime  Minister 
Mikulic  resigned  under  pressure.  Mikulic,  who  had  initiated  several 
austerity  programs  to  reduce  rampant  inflation,  met  general  dis- 
approval when  his  programs  produced  no  immediate  results.  He 
was  also  implicated  in  the  Agrokomerc  scandal  of  1987,  the  most 
extensive  instance  of  government  and  financial  corruption  in  Yu- 
goslavia to  that  time.  In  accordance  with  the  constitutional  provi- 
sions for  resignation,  the  Mikulic  government  remained  in  office 
until  a  new  government,  headed  by  Markovic,  was  selected  in  the 
spring  of  1989.  Markovic,  who  had  gained  a  reputation  as  an  ef- 
fective economic  innovator  and  moderate  politician  in  Croatia,  drew 
heavy  criticism  for  refusing  to  take  drastic  anti-inflation  measures 


183 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

and  for  allowing  both  the  economy  and  the  Kosovo  crisis  to  wors- 
en in  his  first  year  in  office. 

Throughout  the  turbulent  debates  of  the  1980s,  the  Yugoslav 
political  system  never  produced  a  leader  who  commanded  the 
respect  of  all  factions.  But  by  the  turn  of  the  decade,  an  end  to 
the  leadership  crisis  appeared  possible.  Markovic,  who  became 
prime  minister  in  1989,  clearly  belonged  to  a  generation  of  tech- 
nocrats intermediate  between  the  Tito  generation  and  the  young- 
est politicians  in  the  country,  and  some  of  his  economic  policies 
received  strong  public  criticism.  But  Markovic  made  bold  moves 
toward  a  Yugoslav  market  economy  in  1990.  He  received  broad 
public  support  when  he  declared  that  his  government  would  func- 
tion independently  of  LCY  influence  and  would  be  ready  for 
multiparty  elections  after  the  LCY  split  in  1990.  More  important 
for  the  long  term,  a  new  generation  of  leaders  began  to  fill  nation- 
al positions  at  the  end  of  the  1980s,  leaving  few  figures  from  Ti- 
to's World  War  II  Partisan  circle  in  power.  New  faces  included 
1989  State  President  Janez  Drnovsek  of  Slovenia  and  Vasil  Tupur- 
kovski,  a  Macedonian  member  of  the  FEC.  Both  in  their  thirties 
when  elected  but  with  positive  national  reputations,  Drnovsek  and 
Tupurkovski  called  consistently  for  pragmatic,  drastic  reform. 

Government  Structure 

The  Yugoslav  Constitution  of  1974  prescribed  no  division  of  pow- 
ers among  the  bodies  of  the  federal  or  republic  governments.  In 
practice,  however,  these  entities  resembled  those  of  a  parliamen- 
tary democracy  in  their  division  of  responsibility.  The  basic  struc- 
ture and  relationships  of  government  institutions  remained  the  same 
from  1974  through  1990. 

Federal  Assembly 

The  1974  Constitution  divided  the  Federal  Assembly  (Skupstina) 
into  two  chambers,  the  Federal  Chamber  and  the  Chamber  of 
Republics  and  Provinces  (see  fig.  13).  The  former  contained  thirty 
representatives  from  each  republic  and  twenty  from  each  province. 
Representatives  were  chosen  from  among  delegates  elected  by  or- 
ganizations such  as  communes  and  institutions  at  the  lowest  level 
of  the  system,  giving  the  chamber  elements  of  a  grass-roots  constit- 
uency. Members  of  assemblies  below  the  federal  level  were  not  eligi- 
ble for  the  Federal  Chamber.  Voting  in  the  Federal  Chamber  was 
by  simple  majority,  and  the  chamber  considered  all  issues  where 
federal  authority  had  an  impact  on  any  local  organization.  Although 
originally  intended  to  represent  individuals  and  local  organizations, 


184 


Government  and  Politics 


delegates  tended  to  vote  according  to  instructions  from  their  respec- 
tive regional  governments. 

The  Chamber  of  Republics  and  Provinces  was  elected  by  the 
assemblies  of  the  republics  and  provinces.  It  included  twelve 
delegates  from  each  republic  and  eight  from  each  province.  Vot- 
ing was  by  delegation,  and  unanimity  was  required  on  all  inter- 
regional questions.  This  requirement  meant  that  all  eight  political 
jurisdictions  had  veto  power  in  any  vote.  All  interregional  issues 
with  federal  jurisdiction  were  considered  in  this  chamber.  Proposals 
were  forwarded  to  the  assemblies  of  the  republics  involved  for  for- 
mation of  the  regional  position  that  would  determine  the  bloc  vote 
of  the  national  delegation. 

Federal  Executive  Council 

The  Federal  Executive  Council  (FEC)  was  responsible  for  every- 
day bureaucratic  operation  of  the  government  (see  fig.  14).  Using 
recommendations  from  the  LCY  and  its  own  committees,  the  FEC 
was  the  primary  sponsor  of  proposals  for  deliberation  by  the  Fed- 
eral Assembly.  The  FEC  consisted  of  a  prime  minister  and  two 
deputy  prime  ministers,  who  were  nominated  by  the  State  Presiden- 
cy and  ratified  by  the  Federal  Assembly,  and  the  heads,  or  secre- 
taries, of  the  twelve  major  federal  bureaucracies  (the  secretariats 
for  agriculture,  development,  domestic  trade,  finance,  foreign  af- 
fairs, foreign  economic  relations,  industry  and  energy,  internal  af- 
fairs, labor,  legal  and  administrative  affairs,  national  defense,  and 
transportation  and  communication).  The  secretaries  were  select- 
ed by  the  prime  minister  and  approved  by  the  Federal  Assembly. 
Four  ministers  without  portfolio  were  added  from  republics  un- 
derrepresented  in  the  other  fifteen  positions. 

The  nineteen-member  FEC  outlined  in  the  1974  Constitution 
was  reduced  from  the  previous  number  of  twenty-nine;  the  feder- 
al Secretariat  for  Finance  was  added  in  1988,  the  secretariats  for 
development  and  domestic  trade  in  1989.  Although  Tito's  rota- 
tion principle  was  not  observed  in  determining  the  nationality  of 
the  prime  minister  or  the  federal  secretaries,  a  rough  balance  was 
maintained. 

FEC  members  formed  a  variety  of  committees  for  resolution  of 
interregional  issues  preparatory  to  making  recommendations  to  the 
Federal  Assembly.  Five  standing  committees,  one  for  each  of  the 
most  troublesome  federal  issues,  included  members  from  both  the 
FEC  and  the  republic  executive  councils.  These  committees  de- 
bated practical  aspects  of  all  national  problems,  making  the  FEC 
the  most  important  national  center  of  political  debate,  compromise, 
and  influence. 


185 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


1946  —  THE  PEOPLE'S  ASSEMBLY 


FEDERAL 
CHAMBER 


/  REPRESENTATIVE 
PER  50.000  PEOPLE 


p 


CHAMBER  OF 
NATIONALITIES 


1953  — THE  FEDERAL  PEOPLE'S  ASSEMBLY 


FEDERAL 
CHAMBER 


CHAMBER  OF 
NATIONALITIES 


1  REPRESENTATIVE 
PER  60,000  PEOPLE 

JO  PER  REPUBLIC 
6  VOJVODINA 
4  KOSOVO  AND  KOSMET 


CHAMBER  OF 
PRODUCERS 


1 963  —  THE  FEDERAL  ASSEMBLY 


FEDERAL 
CHAMBER 

(120) 

CHAMBER  OF 
NATIONALITIES 

(70) 

10  PER  REPUBLIC 
5  PER  PROVINCE 

30  REPRESENTATIVES  PER 

REPUBLIC 
20  VOJVODINA 
15  KOSOVO  AND  KOSMET 


I  REPRESENTATIVE 
PER  70,000  WORKERS 


1 968  —  THE  FEDERAL  ASSEMBLY 


CHAMBER  OF 
NATIONALITIES 

(70) 


SOCIOPOLITICAL 
CHAMBER 

(120) 


ECONOMIC 
CHAMBER 

(120) 

EDUCATION- 
CULTURAL 
CHAMBER 

(120) 

SOCIAL- 
HEALTH 
CHAMBER 

(120) 

ECONOMIC 
CHAMBER 

(120) 

EDUCATION- 
CULTURAL 
CHAMBER 

(120) 

SOCIAL- 
HEALTH 
CHAMBER 

(120) 

ORGANIZATIONAL- 
POLITICAL 
CHAMBER 

(120) 


CHAMBER  OF 
REPUBLICS 

AND 
PROVINCES 


m 

12  PER  REPUBUC 
PER  PROVINCE 


(220) 

30  PER  REPUBLIC 
20  PER  PROVINCE 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Josip  Sruk,  Ustavno  uredjenje,  SFRJ,  Zagreb,  1976,  329-32. 


Figure  13.  Evolution  of  the  Federal  Parliament  as  of  1990 

Legislation  was  formulated  in  the  FEC — a  process  that  could 
take  a  year  or  more — then  sent  to  the  appropriate  chamber  of  the 
Federal  Assembly  for  debate.  In  the  1970s,  the  FEC  was  second 
only  to  Tito  himself  in  producing  compromises  on  controversial 
issues  among  opposing  republics  and  second  only  to  the  party  as 
a  decision-making  body.  By  definition,  it  controlled  all  federal 
bureaucracies  and  had  exclusive  access  to  expert  information  needed 
for  policy  making.  The  FEC  also  could  determine  the  scheduling 
of  debate  on  legislation  and  policy.  After  Tito's  death,  however, 
regions  defended  their  interests  more  stubbornly,  and  party  leader- 
ship split  along  regional  lines.  In  negotiations  involving  party  leaders 
with  regional  agendas,  the  FEC  increasingly  relied  on  constitution- 
ally prescribed  temporary  measures,  which  could  not  be  blocked 
by  dissenting  delegations.  Such  measures  remained  in  effect  pending 


186 


Government  and  Politics 


a  unanimous  resolution,  and  on  many  issues  they  were  the  only 
valid  legislation  for  long  periods  of  time.  The  FEC's  failing  bar- 
gaining power  during  the  1980s  was  exemplified  by  its  inability 
to  formulate  the  practical  terms  of  the  Long-Term  Program  of  Eco- 
nomic Stabilization. 

FEC  members  also  sat  on  advisory  councils  that  considered  in- 
terregional organizational  issues.  All  major  social  and  political  or- 
ganizations, including  the  LCY,  were  represented  in  the  councils. 
Although  not  prescribed  in  the  Constitution,  the  councils  played 
a  major  role  in  federal  policy  making  after  1973. 

State  Presidency 

Also  represented  in  the  federal  councils  was  the  third  major  or- 
gan of  the  Yugoslav  national  government,  the  collective  State 
Presidency.  Formed  by  Tito  in  1970  to  provide  all-Yugoslav  negoti- 
ation of  interregional  conflicts,  the  State  Presidency  became  the 
symbolic  replacement  for  Tito's  position  as  head  of  state.  By  1989 
it  had  evolved  from  the  original  twenty-three-member  group  to  an 
eight-member  group,  one  member  of  which  was  elected  from  each 
republic  and  province.  A  ninth,  ex-officio  post  was  held  by  the  presi- 
dent of  the  LCY  Central  Committee  until  late  1988,  when  the  po- 
sition was  abolished  to  reduce  party  interference  in  state  institutions. 
Most  republics  and  provinces  elected  their  representatives  to  the 
state  Presidency  in  their  assemblies,  but  in  1989  Bosnia  and  Her- 
cegovina,  Montenegro,  and  Slovenia  held  direct  popular  elections 
for  this  post.  The  position  of  president  rotated  yearly,  to  provide 
even  distribution  among  the  republican  and  provincial  represen- 
tatives. Beginning  with  the  1989  president,  Janez  Drnovsek  of 
Slovenia,  the  "presidency  of  the  Presidency"  was  to  rotate  among 
the  republics  and  provinces  in  the  following  order:  Serbia,  Croa- 
tia, Montenegro,  Vojvodina,  Kosovo,  Macedonia,  and  Bosnia  and 
Hercegovina,  through  1997. 

The  1974  Constitution  named  the  State  Presidency  as  "supreme 
body  in  charge  of  administration  and  command  of  the  armed 
forces,"  as  well  as  the  main  administrator  of  foreign  policy  and 
adviser  on  domestic  policy.  The  State  Presidency  controlled  its  con- 
stitutionally prescribed  domains  through  working  bodies  known 
as  councils  of  the  presidency.  Among  these  were  councils  for  for- 
eign policy,  national  defense,  state  security,  and  protection  of  the 
constitutional  order.  Councils  were  appointed  by  the  FEC.  In  prac- 
tice, the  State  Presidency  deliberated  informally,  consulting  regu- 
larly with  representatives  of  other  government  bodies  and 
developing  positions  by  consensus  rather  than  by  the  majority  vote 
prescribed  in  the  Constitution.  It  also  met  regularly  with  the  LCY 


187 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


188 


Government  and  Politics 


Presidium  and  regional  presidencies.  Because  its  members  had  no 
bureaucratic  responsibility  and  because  of  the  prestige  left  to  the 
institution  by  Tito,  the  State  Presidency  was  an  important  bar- 
gaining center  for  purely  political  issues  that  could  not  be  resolved 
in  the  Federal  Assembly  or  the  FEC .  It  also  initiated  all  temporary 
measures  passed  by  the  FEC .  But  the  State  Presidency  had  no  power 
to  impose  compromise;  this  was  not  an  important  weakness  when 
Tito  filled  the  position,  but  his  successors  lacked  his  personal  in- 
fluence. 

Court  System 

Yugoslavia  had  two  national  court  systems,  one  for  resolution 
of  civil  and  criminal  cases,  the  other  to  judge  the  conformity  of 
national  law  with  the  Constitution  and  the  conformity  of  laws  passed 
by  republics  and  provinces  with  national  law.  In  1990  the  federal 
Constitutional  Court  found  recent  amendments  to  the  constitutions 
of  all  the  republics  except  Montenegro  to  be  at  variance  with  the 
federal  Constitution.  The  court  did  not  have  the  authority,  however, 
to  take  action  against  such  infractions.  Its" judgments  were  passed 
to  the  Federal  Assembly  for  action.  The  federal  Constitutional  Court 
also  resolved  disputes  of  authority  between  regional  bodies  or  be- 
tween a  regional  body  and  the  national  government,  but  it  did  not 
act  as  an  appeals  court  for  the  regional  level.  The  republics  and 
provinces  also  had  constitutional  courts,  which  dealt  with  constitu- 
tional questions  on  their  level.  For  national  uniformity,  the  mem- 
bers of  the  regional  constitutional  courts  held  regular  consultations 
on  procedures  and  constitutional  interpretations. 

The  regular  court  system  consisted  of  the  federal,  republican, 
and  provincial  supreme  courts  and  of  local  (commune)  courts,  each 
resolving  civil  and  criminal  cases  involving  laws  at  their  level  of 
government.  Local  regular  courts  included  untrained  citizens  elected 
by  their  communes,  as  well  as  professional  jurists.  This  provision 
partially  fulfilled  the  function  of  trial  by  jury,  which  did  not  exist 
in  Yugoslavia.  The  Yugoslav  system  also  had  no  habeas  corpus 
law.  Only  professional  judges  served  on  the  regular  courts  of  the 
republics  and  the  federal  Supreme  Court.  The  system  also  includ- 
ed local-  to  federal-level  self-management  courts  (courts  of  associated 
labor),  which  heard  only  cases  involving  acts  of  the  self-management 
organizations  not  involving  government  law.  The  military  courts 
completed  the  Yugoslav  justice  system  (see  Courts,  Detention,  and 
Punishment,  ch.  5). 

Each  republic  and  province  had  its  own  law  code,  separate  from 
the  federal  criminal  code.  By  federal  law,  political  crimes  were 
first  tried  at  district  level;  then  cases  could  be  appealed  at  the 


189 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

republic  and  federal  levels  of  the  regular  court  system.  The  feder- 
al Supreme  Court  was  the  final  court  of  appeal  for  lower  courts 
of  all  types.  The  chief  civil  law  enforcement  officer  was  the  public 
prosecutor,  elected  by  the  Federal  Assembly.  The  republics  and 
provinces  had  corresponding  officers,  similarly  elected  and  under 
the  direction  of  the  federal  prosecutor. 

Local  Government  and  the  Communes 

Government  structure  at  the  republic  level  was  essentially  the 
same  as  that  at  the  federal  level.  This  included  multi-member 
presidencies  headed  by  a  single  member  designated  as  president 
of  the  republic.  In  multiethnic  republics  such  as  Bosnia  and  Her- 
cegovina,  members  of  the  presidency  were  allotted  and  selected  by 
ethnic  group.  Through  1990  each  republic  had  a  three-chamber 
assembly,  including  the  chambers  of  associated  labor  and  communes 
and  the  sociopolitical  chamber.  Republic  executive  councils  included 
a  full  complement  of  ministries,  including  foreign  ministries.  The 
governments  of  the  "autonomous"  provinces  Kosovo  and  Vojvo- 
dina  had  the  same  structure;  in  the  years  of  true  autonomy, 
1974-88,  the  provinces'  delegates  to  the  federal  State  Presidency 
and  the  federal  Chamber  of  Republics  and  Provinces  took  indepen- 
dent positions  on  some  issues.  Beginning  in  1988,  however,  Ser- 
bia tightened  control  over  the  provinces  by  purging  the  Kosovo 
and  Vojvodina  leagues  of  communists  (hence  the  government 
leadership)  and  inserting  pro-Serbian  individuals.  Amendment  of 
the  constitution  of  Serbia,  to  which  the  provinces  were  bound,  over- 
rode the  autonomy  provisions  of  the  1974  federal  Constitution. 

Local  government  in  Yugoslavia  was  based  on  the  unique  insti- 
tution of  the  commune,  officially  defined  as  "a  self-managing  socio- 
political community  based  on  the  power  of  and  self-management 
by  working-class  and  all  working  people. ' '  In  1988  Yugoslav  local 
government  consisted  of  about  500  communes.  Beginning  in  the 
1950s,  the  communes  held  all  political  authority  not  specifically 
delegated  to  government  at  the  federal  or  republic  level;  they  were 
the  source  of  Yugoslavia's  claim  that,  unlike  the  centralized  Soviet 
system,  Yugoslav  socialism  truly  gave  power  to  the  workers.  Be- 
cause they  generated  pockets  of  political  power  controlled  by  local 
party  officials,  the  communes  also  contributed  to  the  fractious,  un- 
focused nature  of  political  power  throughout  the  country  after  the 
death  of  Tito.  The  district,  next-highest  political  level  above  the 
commune,  controlled  law  enforcement  and  elections,  but  functions 
such  as  economic  planning,  management  of  utilities,  and  supervi- 
sion of  economic  enterprises  were  the  responsibility  of  the  com- 
mune. Workers'  councils  of  industrial  enterprises  were  obliged  to 


190 


Government  and  Politics 


submit  financial  records  to  the  communes  to  justify  the  setting  of 
worker  wages  (see  The  Economic  Management  Mechanism,  ch.  3). 

The  commune  was  also  the  lowest  level  in  the  complex  delegate 
system  that  ultimately  elected  members  of  the  Federal  Assembly. 
Workers,  sociopolitical  organizations,  and  local  communities  elected 
the  members  of  three-chamber  commune  assemblies,  which  in  turn 
elected  delegates  to  republic  and  provincial  assemblies  and  delegates 
to  the  Federal  Chamber  of  the  Federal  Assembly.  Delegates  to  the 
republic  and  provincial  assemblies  elected  members  of  the  Chamber 
of  Republics  and  Provinces  of  the  Federal  Assembly,  but  they  had 
no  voice  in  choosing  the  Federal  Chamber.  In  practice,  individual 
voters  at  the  commune  level  chose  only  from  closed  lists  of  delegate 
candidates,  with  littie  regard  for  capacity  to  represent  a  constituency. 
Although  liberalization  of  the  electoral  system  was  frequently  dis- 
cussed, no  open  nomination  process  had  emerged  by  1990.  Both 
commune  and  republic  assemblies  had  three  chambers,  each  repre- 
senting a  sector  of  society  (associated  labor,  local  communities,  and 
sociopolitical  organizations).  Because  those  categories  overlapped, 
some  citizens  were  represented  by  more  than  one  delegate. 

Behind  the  principle  of  socialist  self-management,  prescribed  at 
length  in  the  1974  Constitution,  was  the  concept  that  self-managing 
citizens'  organizations  would  assume  complete  governmental  control 
and  the  state  would  disappear  entirely  at  some  point.  In  practice, 
however,  grass-roots  political  power  shrank  in  the  1980s,  especial- 
ly as  it  applied  to  economic  policy.  Exercise  of  this  power  was 
blocked  by  an  intermediate  layer  of  political  managers,  whose  selec- 
tion remained  an  LCY  prerogative  at  the  republic  and  provincial 
levels.  Given  this  selection  policy,  the  regional  Yugoslav  system 
mainly  chose  loyal  party  operatives  over  competent  managers  when 
such  a  choice  was  necessary.  Given  the  autonomy  of  all  state  agen- 
cies below  the  federal  level  in  Yugoslavia,  these  political  appoin- 
tees were  able  to  block  national  reform  programs  that  threatened 
their  elite  positions.  Yugoslavia  had  renounced  both  Stalinist  cen- 
tralized planning  and  (to  a  lesser  extent)  the  practice  of  limiting 
the  best  party  jobs  to  a  privileged  elite,  known  in  communist  soci- 
eties as  the  nomenklatura.  Nevertheless,  in  Yugoslavia  a  number  of 
inflexible  smaller  systems  deprived  industrial  and  agricultural  work- 
ers of  the  decision-making  powers  guaranteed  them  by  the  Con- 
stitution to  control  their  own  economic  destiny.  Decision-making 
bodies  were  in  no  way  answerable  to  the  workers  for  their  poli- 
cies. Neither  of  the  chambers  of  the  Federal  Assembly,  election 
of  whose  delegates  nominally  began  at  the  grass-roots  level, 
represented  workers  or  their  organizations  as  separate  interest 
groups  independent  of  the  overall  political  position  of  their  region. 


191 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Nongovernmental  Political  Institutions 

Beginning  in  1945,  the  institutions  of  the  Yugoslav  government 
were  overshadowed  by  the  dominating  policy  input  of  the  single 
ruling  communist  party  and  by  a  number  of  party-controlled  organi- 
zations designed  to  maintain  control  of  various  sectors  of  society. 
At  the  end  of  the  first  post-Tito  decade,  however,  this  condition 
changed  in  two  ways.  First,  major  party-controlled  organizations 
such  as  unions  and  youth  groups  took  independent  positions,  and 
some  became  rival  parties  to  the  LCY.  Those  that  remained  closest 
to  the  LCY  lost  membership  and  influence.  Second,  the  1990  split 
of  the  LCY  left  that  organization  without  even  nominal  policy- 
making control  for  the  first  time  since  1945.  These  developments 
threatened  to  complete  the  separation  of  state  from  party  that  had 
begun  in  1948. 

League  of  Communists  of  Yugoslavia 

Through  the  end  of  the  1980s,  Yugoslavia  remained  a  one-party 
state.  All  government  officials  at  national  and  republic  levels,  and 
a  very  high  percentage  of  local  officials,  were  chosen  from  among 
the  2  million  members  of  the  League  of  Communists  of  Yugosla- 
via (LCY).  The  1974  Constitution  described  the  LCY  as  "the  prime 
mover  and  exponent  of  political  activity,"  using  its  "guiding  ideo- 
logical and  political  action"  to  foster  self-management,  the  socialist 
revolution,  and  "social  and  democratic  consciousness."  In  the 
process  of  government  reforms  in  the  1960s  and  1970s,  the 
dominance  of  the  LCY  began  to  erode,  especially  in  the  area  of 
economic  policy.  Through  the  1980s,  however,  the  LCY  remained 
nominally  the  primary  nongovernmental  political  institution,  with 
continued  heavy  influence  on  matters  of  political  policy  at  all  lev- 
els of  the  federal  state.  In  practical  input  to  policy  decisions,  the 
power  of  the  LCY  leadership  overlapped  and  often  blended  with 
that  of  the  collective  State  Presidency  and  the  FEC .  But  party  in- 
fluence and  respect  in  Yugoslav  society  at  large  lagged  noticeably, 
and  alternative  political  organizations  proliferated.  By  1990  the  con- 
stitutional guarantee  for  the  existence  of  LCY-sponsored  organi- 
zations was  being  used  to  justify  the  formation  of  noncommunist 
parties  without  further  amendment  of  the  Constitution. 

LCY  membership  decreased  slightly  in  the  1980s.  The  last  in- 
crease was  recorded  in  1982,  and  in  1988  membership  fell  below 
2  million  for  the  first  time  since  1979.  The  death  of  Tito  deprived 
the  party  of  its  only  unifying  element,  and  after  1980  the  party 
suffered  from  the  same  fragmentation  and  diffusion  of  power  as 
government  institutions. 


192 


Government  and  Politics 


Founded  in  1919,  the  party  came  to  power  in  1945  and  followed 
the  organizational  pattern  of  the  communist  party  in  the  Soviet 
Union  until  the  Sixth  Party  Congress  (1952).  The  first  major  party 
decentralization  occurred  at  that  time,  beginning  a  long,  uneven 
process  of  reducing  direct  party  authority  in  society.  The  Sixth  Party 
Congress  also  changed  the  name  of  the  party  from  the  Communist 
Party  of  Yugoslavia  (CPY)  to  the  League  of  Communists  of  Yu- 
goslavia (LCY),  to  differentiate  it  from  the  other  East  European 
communist  parties. 

Under  Tito,  a  series  of  pragmatic  adjustments  were  made  after 
1952  to  counteract  the  decentralization  trend,  when  more  control 
was  needed  in  the  central  party  organ.  The  first  major  event  in 
that  series  was  the  1954  condemnation  of  Milovan  Djilas,  architect 
of  the  1952  reforms.  Beginning  in  1963,  major  structural  changes 
affected  the  national  role  of  the  LCY.  Early  changes  were  the  in- 
troduction of  direct  channels  of  influence  for  self-management 
groups  into  policy  making  (1963)  and  the  mandated  separation  of 
top  party  and  state  positions  (1966).  Until  the  removal  of  Rankovic 
in  1966,  a  strong  conservative  element  sought  to  restore  the  direct, 
central  role  that  the  party  had  gradually  lost  after  the  split  with 
the  Soviet  Union.  Beginning  in  1966,  however,  the  party  assumed 
an  atmosphere  of  open,  regionally  based  disagreement  that  inten- 
sified for  the  next  twenty-five  years.  In  1969  the  failure  of  the  pres- 
tigious Executive  Bureau  of  the  party  Presidium  to  act  as  a  truly 
national  mediator  within  the  party  signaled  growing  fragmenta- 
tion in  the  LCY  structure  (see  Political  Evolution  after  1945,  this 
ch.).  The  open  rebellion  of  the  Croatian  party  between  1969  and 
1971  had  negative  repercussions  for  the  LCY,  despite  Tito's  deci- 
sive purge.  Croatia  remained  tranquil  in  the  1970s,  but  the  Serbi- 
an and  Slovenian  parties  criticized  the  national  organization 
periodically.  The  Serbs  were  especially  restive  after  passage  of  the 
1974  Constitution.  In  1976  Najdan  Pasic,  in  the  name  of  the  Ser- 
bian central  committee,  presented  a  document  known  as  the  Blue 
Book  to  the  LCY  leadership.  That  document  was  a  list  of  damages 
suffered  by  the  Serbs  because  of  inequities  in  the  Constitution.  Tito 
suppressed  the  Blue  Book,  but  six  years  later  Pasic  attracted  more 
attention  by  suggesting  that  a  commission  study  problems  of  govern- 
ment function. 

Efforts  to  streamline  Yugoslavia's  economic  and  political  sys- 
tems always  involved  making  changes  in  the  LCY.  All  factions  un- 
derstood that  no  meaningful  change  was  possible  in  those  areas 
without  cutting  through  the  cumbersome  lines  of  power  held  by 
party  elites  at  all  levels.  All  the  major  reform  efforts  of  the  1980s 
(the  Pasic  letter  of  1982,  an  open  call  for  reform  proposals  in  1985, 


193 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

and  the  national  working  group  report  and  Serbian  Academy  of 
Sciences  document  of  1 986)  listed  party  reform  as  the  starting  point 
for  political  progress  (see  Reform  in  the  1980s,  this  ch.).  Neverthe- 
less, in  1990  the  LCY  was  still  organized  in  substantially  the  same 
way  as  it  had  been  at  the  time  of  Tito's  death.  By  that  time,  the 
LCY  was  commonly  called  "not  one  party,  but  eight,"  a  descrip- 
tion that  accurately  reflected  its  fragmentation. 

In  theory,  the  national  party  congress  was  the  highest  authority 
of  the  LCY;  it  was  mandated  to  meet  at  least  every  five  years.  Ac- 
cordingly, the  Twelfth  Party  Congress  met  in  1982,  the  Thirteenth 
Party  Congress  in  1986,  the  Fourteenth  Party  Congress  in  1990. 
The  main  goal  of  those  congresses  was  reconciliation  of  regional 
differences  on  reform  that  would  restore  the  party's  leading  role 
in  shaping  national  policy.  The  1982  and  1986  congresses  each  be- 
gan with  hopeful  rhetoric  and  dissolved  into  renewed  regional 
squabbles.  The  1990  congress  was  the  first  since  1945  to  be  labeled 
"extraordinary"  (meaning  "emergency").  It  was  widely  viewed 
as  the  party's  "last  chance"  for  constructive  action  to  improve  its 
sagging  national  image. 

A  commission  on  party  statute  reform  met  six  months  prior  to 
the  Fourteenth  Party  Congress  to  develop  reform  proposals  for  dis- 
cussion at  the  congress.  This  commission  reaffirmed  the  Leninist 
principle  of  democratic  centralism — meaning  that  diverse  views 
were  to  be  heard  but  that  the  will  of  the  majority  would  determine 
policy.  The  commission  also  recommended  streamlining  the  party 
hierarchy  for  greater  accountability.  But  the  vague  language  of  the 
commission  report  addressed  none  of  the  deep  and  controversial 
statutory  changes  universally  acknowledged  as  necessary.  The 
stimulus  for  change  would  thus  have  to  come  from  a  platform  adopt- 
ed by  the  congress  itself.  By  party  law,  such  a  platform  was  re- 
quired to  precede  statutory  changes.  In  fact,  prior  to  the  opening 
of  the  congress,  no  formal  proposal  for  party  transformation  had 
ever  been  made. 

The  Fourteenth  Party  Congress  included  1,688  delegates,  of 
which  994  were  elected  by  local  commune  party  conferences  (1 
delegate  per  2,000  party  members).  Each  of  the  six  republic  party 
organizations  then  added  60  delegates.  The  two  provincial  party 
organizations  added  40  each,  and  the  Yugoslav  People's  Army 
(YPA)  added  another  30.  Other  party  organizations  sent  a  total 
of  204  delegates.  Regional  representation  was  divided  as  follows: 
Serbia  had  360  delegates;  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina,  278;  Croatia, 
240;  Macedonia,  166;  Vojvodina,  157;  Slovenia,  139;  Montenegro, 
123;  and  Kosovo,  112. 


194 


Government  and  Politics 


Doctrinal  reform  was  the  central  task  of  the  Fourteenth  Party 
Congress.  The  congress  voted  to  relinquish  the  LCY's  monopoly 
of  political  power  and  allow  multiparty  elections  in  response  to  simi- 
lar moves  in  neighboring  communist  countries.  But  the  meeting 
was  cut  short  when  the  Slovenian  delegation  departed  in  protest 
of  the  defeat  of  its  proposal  to  restructure  the  LCY  as  a  league  of 
republican  organizations  freely  associated  under  the  national  party. 
The  departure  of  the  League  of  Communists  of  Slovenia  left  the 
national  organization  weakened  and  uncertain,  especially  because 
national  television  had  revealed  acrimonious  conflicts  in  what  was 
supposedly  the  strongest  unifying  political  force  in  the  country.  In 
the  months  following  the  congress,  the  status  of  the  party  remained 
unknown,  as  Serbian  and  other  members  attempted  to  reconvene 
the  congress  and  complete  the  much-needed  new  party  platform. 
Both  the  passage  of  electoral  reforms  and  the  interruption  of  the 
congress  by  the  Slovenes  dampened  Serbian  ambitions  for  using 
the  party  to  control  national  politics. 

The  procedures  and  structure  of  the  LCY  remained  largely  un- 
changed during  the  1980s.  The  party  was  directed  between  con- 
gresses by  the  Presidium,  the  twenty-three  member  steering  body 
for  the  Central  Committee.  The  Presidium  oversaw  a  variety  of 
commissions  and  organizations  and  implemented  party  policy. 
Specific  Presidium  members  directed  party  activities  in  ideology, 
organizational  development,  socioeconomic  relations,  political 
propaganda,  and  international  relations.  Nationalities  were  appor- 
tioned in  the  Presidium  according  to  republic  and  province  (three 
members  per  republic,  two  per  province,  one  representing  the  YPA, 
plus  the  president,  who  was  elected  by  the  party  Central  Commit- 
tee). Of  the  Presidium  membership,  fourteen  were  full  members; 
the  others  were  ex  officio  members  (one  from  the  YPA,  plus  the 
presidents  of  the  party  presidiums  of  each  republic  and  province). 
Ex  officio  members  could  not  be  directly  removed.  Because  the  Pre- 
sidium thus  provided  the  YPA  a  direct  role  in  decision  making, 
that  organization  strongly  opposed  legalization  of  other  political  par- 
ties that  would  not  provide  it  such  input  (see  The  Military  and 
the  Party,  ch.  5).  Tito's  last  major  adjustment  to  the  party  system 
had  established  rotation  of  major  party  leadership  positions,  which 
after  1979  were  assumed  by  a  representative  of  a  different  region 
every  one  or  two  years.  When  Tito  died,  the  Presidium  seemed 
to  be  increasing  its  influence  on  national  policy  making.  That  trend 
ended  in  1980,  however,  when  the  position  of  party  president  was 
abolished  in  favor  of  collective  leadership  in  the  Presidium. 

In  the  late  1980s,  the  Central  Committee  comprised  165  mem- 
bers. Those  individuals  were  nominated  by  the  central  committees 


195 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

of  the  republics  and  provinces.  The  national  Central  Committee 
was  called  into  plenary  session  at  irregular  intervals  to  discuss  ur- 
gent policy  questions.  In  less  than  one  year  in  1988-89,  ten  such 
sessions — some  held  consecutively — were  called  to  discuss  party  re- 
form. Both  the  Presidium  and  the  Central  Committee  were  tar- 
geted in  reform  agendas;  reform  efforts  removed  five  Presidium 
members  in  1989,  and  an  1989  LCY  commission  proposed  reduc- 
ing the  size  of  the  Central  Committee  to  129  members. 

Membership  policy  for  the  LCY  differed  markedly  from  that  for 
other  communist  parties.  Until  the  reforms  of  1952,  Yugoslavia 
followed  the  Soviet  model.  Recommendations  for  party  member- 
ship were  required  from  two  party  members;  then  a  candidate  for 
membership  was  placed  on  probation  for  eighteen  months.  Both 
those  requirements  were  dropped  in  1952;  after  that  time,  nomi- 
nations also  were  accepted  from  nonparty  Yugoslavs  in  good  stand- 
ing. During  the  1970s,  party  membership  nearly  doubled,  despite 
the  large-scale  expulsions  of  the  Tito  era  (170,000  left  the  party 
forcibly  or  voluntarily  between  1972  and  1979).  Membership 
reached  2  million  in  1980.  From  1983  until  1988,  however,  the 
number  decreased  slightiy  every  year,  although  massive  expulsions 
did  not  recur  after  the  purge  of  the  Kosovo  party  following  the  1981 
riots.  About  5  percent  of  party  members  left  voluntarily  in  the  1980s, 
and  the  percentage  of  worker  and  peasant  members  declined.  In 
1987  workers  constituted  only  30  percent  of  the  total  membership 
and  8  percent  of  the  Central  Committee,  while  peasants  made  up 
only  3.5  percent  of  total  party  membership.  Increasing  party  elitism 
was  indicated  by  the  stable  percentage  of  the  intelligentsia,  who 
depended  on  party  membership  for  upward  professional  mobility. 
In  the  mid-1980s,  some  95  percent  of  top  managers  and  77.6  per- 
cent of  professionals  in  Yugoslavia  were  party  members.  In  1980 
only  25  percent  of  party  membership  was  younger  than  twenty- 
seven,  including  only  1  in  200  students. 

Authoritative  studies  and  surveys  in  the  1980s  showed  that  most 
Yugoslavs,  whether  party  members  or  nonmembers,  viewed  the 
LCY  as  a  practical  avenue  to  success,  not  as  a  leading  force  in  the 
ideology  or  ethics  of  the  nation.  Many  LCY  members  did  not  par- 
ticipate in  political  activities,  and  power  positions  remained  in  the 
same  hands  for  long  periods  of  time.  A  considerable  number  of 
Central  Committee  members  served  more  than  one  term,  some 
as  many  as  seven. 

Party  organization  at  the  republic  and  province  level  was  iden- 
tical to  that  of  the  national  party.  A  group  of  executive  secretaries 
of  the  national  Presidium  served  as  the  liaison  between  the  national 
party  and  the  next  level  in  the  hierarchy.  In  the  1980s,  the  republic 


196 


Government  and  Politics 


and  provincial  parties  were  the  most  important  arenas  for  formulat- 
ing and  expressing  the  positions  of  their  respective  jurisdictions 
toward  national  political  and  economic  issues.  For  example,  the 
central  committees  of  Slovenia  and  Serbia  framed  much  of  the  po- 
litical polemics  between  the  two  republics.  Slobodan  Milosevic  used 
the  presidency  of  the  Serbian  presidium  in  the  late  1980s  as  a  plat- 
form to  advocate  Serbian  nationalism  and  recentralization  of  party 
and  state  institutions.  Approval  by  the  Slovenian  and  Croatian  cen- 
tral committees  for  multiparty  local  elections  in  1990  signaled  a 
major  breakthrough  toward  a  true  multiparty  system  in  those  repub- 
lics (see  Regional  Political  Issues,  this  ch.).  And  the  purging  of 
provincial  party  leaders  in  Vojvodina  and  Kosovo  under  pressure 
from  the  Serbian  party  in  1988  marked  a  turning  point  in  Serbia's 
struggle  to  reassert  control  over  its  two  provinces. 

Thus  in  1990  the  LCY  was  decentralized  in  exercising  authori- 
ty but  increasingly  elitist  in  terms  of  who  occupied  positions  of  power 
in  the  party  organizations.  Party  configuration  was  the  most  for- 
midable obstacle  to  reform  of  the  national  political  system,  but  struc- 
tural change  could  come  only  from  a  centralized  authority  whose 
mere  existence  would  threaten  regional  elites.  Even  as  actual  LCY 
power  waned,  Tito's  legacy  of  party  policy-making  dominance  re- 
mained the  theoretical,  paralyzing  basis  of  government  operations. 

Socialist  Alliance  of  Working  People  of  Yugoslavia 

The  Socialist  Alliance  of  Working  People  of  Yugoslavia  (SAWPY), 
formerly  the  People's  Front,  was  the  largest  and  most  influential 
mass  organization  in  Yugoslavia  from  1945  through  1990.  In  1990 
its  membership  was  13  million,  including  most  of  the  adult  popu- 
lation of  the  country.  The  political  purpose  of  this  national  organi- 
zation, sponsored  by  the  LCY,  was  to  involve  as  many  people  as 
possible  in  activities  on  the  party  agenda,  without  the  restrictions 
and  negative  connotations  of  direct  party  control.  SAWPY  also  was 
chartered  as  a  national  arbitration  forum  for  competing  cross- 
regional  interests.  Although  party  officials  were  forbidden  to  hold 
simultaneous  office  in  SAWPY,  the  top  echelon  of  the  latter  was 
dominated  by  established  party  members.  The  importance  of  SAWPY 
to  the  party  leadership  increased  as  the  party's  direct  control  over 
social  and  state  institutions  decreased.  It  was  useful  in  mobilizing 
otherwise  apathetic  citizens  during  the  Croatian  crisis  of  1971  and 
the  Kosovo  crisis  of  1987. 

The  Constitution  stipulated  a  wide  variety  of  social  and  politi- 
cal functions  for  SAWPY,  including  nomination  of  candidates  for 
delegate  at  the  commune  level,  suggesting  solutions  to  national  and 
local  social  issues  to  assembly  delegates,  and  overseeing  elections 


197 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

and  public  policy  implementation.  Both  individuals  and  interest 
groups  held  membership.  The  structure  of  SAWPY  was  very  similar 
to  that  of  the  party,  including  a  hierarchy  that  extended  from  na- 
tional to  commune  level.  SAWPY  organizations  in  the  republics 
and  provinces  were  simplified  versions  of  the  national  structure. 

The  national  organization  was  run  by  a  conference  of  delegates 
chosen  by  the  regional  SAWPY  leadership.  The  conference  presidium 
included  members  from  the  party,  the  armed  forces,  trade  unions, 
the  Youth  League  of  Yugoslavia,  and  other  national  organizations. 
Like  the  LCY  Central  Committee,  the  SAWPY  conference  estab- 
lished departments  to  formulate  policy  recommendations  in  areas 
such  as  economics,  education,  and  sociopolitical  relations.  Coor- 
dinating committees  were  also  active  in  interregional  consultation 
on  policy  and  mass  political  action. 

In  Slovenia,  the  Socialist  Alliance  of  Working  People  became 
an  umbrella  organization  for  a  number  of  nonparty  organizations 
with  political  interests,  beginning  in  1988.  On  a  lesser  scale,  simi- 
lar changes  occurred  in  other  republics.  This  development  rekin- 
dled the  idea  that  SAWPY  might  be  divorced  from  LCY  domination 
and  reconstituted  as  a  second  political  party  at  the  national  level. 
Pending  such  an  event,  SAWPY  was  regarded  throughout  the  1980s 
as  a  puppet  of  the  party  elite,  particularly  by  virtue  of  its  exclusive 
control  over  the  nomination  of  assembly  delegates  at  the  commune 
level. 

Trade  Unions 

The  Confederation  of  Trade  Unions  of  Yugoslavia  also  was  a 
party-dominated  mass  organization.  It  had  the  constitutional  man- 
date of  protecting  the  rights  of  workers  and  preserving  the  self- 
management  system.  It  also  oversaw  selection  of  delegates  to  the 
Federal  Assembly  from  economic  enterprises  and  of  delegates  to 
the  management  bodies  of  those  enterprises.  The  structure  of  the 
confederation  was  the  same  as  that  of  the  party  and  SAWPY,  but 
the  ruling  body,  the  Council  of  the  Confederation,  did  not  allot 
positions  according  to  ethnic  or  regional  quotas.  Seats  on  the  presidi- 
um of  the  council  were  held  by  the  national  heads  of  the  Yugoslav 
trade  unions  and  the  presidents  of  regional  trade  union  councils. 
Party  influence  in  the  trade  unions  remained  very  strong  through 
the  1980s;  virtually  all  officials  were  party  members,  and  worker 
membership  in  the  unions,  although  voluntary,  was  considered  au- 
tomatic in  many  enterprises. 

In  the  Yugoslav  self-managed  enterprise  system,  there  was 
no  true  adversary  function  for  unions  or  their  officials  because 
there  was  no  true  distinction  between  employers  and  employees. 


198 


Government  and  Politics 


Agreements  were  made  between  worker  groups  within  and  among 
enterprises,  cutting  across  union  organizational  boundaries  (see  The 
Economic  Management  Mechanism,  ch.  3).  The  function  of  the 
unions  was  to  preserve  party  influence  by  selecting  the  members 
of  the  workers'  councils,  to  ensure  that  the  enterprise  was  run  ac- 
cording to  the  self-management  laws,  and  to  protect  the  working 
environment.  Until  1987  union  officials  also  were  expected  to  sup- 
press ''work  stoppages,"  but  they  offered  little  resistance  to  the 
increasing  number  of  strikes  between  1987  and  1990. 

According  to  a  1986  national  poll,  71  percent  of  workers  identi- 
fied themselves  as  either  members  or  officers  of  a  trade  union,  while 
25  percent  denied  membership.  These  figures  differed  considera- 
bly from  official  membership  statistics,  which  claimed  a  97  per- 
cent enrollment.  Other  poll  results  showed  a  lack  of  broad,  active 
support  of  the  unions,  even  among  members;  the  majority  of  work- 
ers polled  did  not  believe  that  the  trade  union  system  was  a  useful 
institution  in  representing  their  interests,  and  only  a  small  percent- 
age of  members  took  an  active  role  in  the  organization.  Neverthe- 
less, the  presence  of  a  genuine  trade  union  structure  controlled  at 
the  enterprise  level  was  a  significant  departure  from  the  enterprise 
politics  of  the  "conventional"  communist  states. 

Youth  League  of  Yugoslavia 

The  Youth  League  of  Yugoslavia  was  the  training  organization 
for  future  members  of  the  LCY,  SAWPY,  and  the  trade  unions. 
Patterned  after  the  Soviet  model  of  youth  indoctrination  organi- 
zations, the  Yugoslav  youth  group  suffered  from  divided  leader- 
ship, poor  support  from  the  party,  and  dwindling  membership  in 
the  1980s.  The  very  high  youth  unemployment  rate  of  the  late  1980s 
made  the  indoctrination  of  young  socialists  a  difficult  task  under 
the  best  of  conditions.  The  proportion  of  nonparticipating  mem- 
bers doubled  between  1981  and  1986.  Slovenia,  where  only  5  per- 
cent of  youth  expressed  a  desire  to  become  party  members  in  1986, 
had  the  lowest  figure  for  the  period.  The  youth  league  exerted  lit- 
tle influence  on  state  or  party  politics.  However,  in  1989  the  Slove- 
nian branch  of  the  organization  announced  plans  for  transformation 
into  a  new  political  party  with  mass  support,  in  time  for  the  1990 
Slovenian  parliamentary  elections. 

Veterans'  Association 

The  Federation  of  Associations  of  Veterans  of  the  National  Liber- 
ation War  (Savez  udruzenja  boraca  Narodno-oslobodilackog  rata — 
SUBNOR)  was  an  aging,  dwindling  group  of  former  World  War 
II  Partisans.  The  assemblies  of  local  and  republic  governments 


199 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

designated  seats  for  SUBNOR  representatives.  Often  used  by  Tito 
as  a  prestigious  lever  for  centralizing  party  control,  SUBNOR  in 
the  1980s  espoused  the  view  that  modern  Yugoslavia  had  degener- 
ated since  the  early  days  of  struggle  and  that  new  leadership  was 
needed.  Although  by  1990  few  figures  of  its  generation  and  view- 
point remained  in  national  politics,  SUBNOR  retained  consider- 
able influence  in  the  first  post-Tito  decade  (see  Government 
Organization  for  Defense,  ch.  5). 

Regional  Political  Issues 

Throughout  the  postwar  era,  each  of  Yugoslavia's  six  republics 
and  two  provinces  maintained  its  own  political  posture  and  agenda, 
many  aspects  of  which  had  originated  centuries  before.  Geogra- 
phy, natural  resources,  religion,  nationality,  economic  policy,  and 
traditional  relations  with  other  countries  influenced  the  positions 
of  republics  and  provinces.  In  1987  Pedro  Ramet,  a  scholar  of  Yugo- 
slav politics,  summarized  interrepublican  political  differences  thus: 
.  .  liberal  recentralizers  are  dominant  in  the  Serbian  Party,  con- 
servative recentralizers  in  the  Bosnian  and  Montenegrin  Parties, 
liberal  decentralizes  in  the  Slovenian  and  Vojvodinan  Parties,  and 
conservative  decentralizes  in  the  Croatian,  Macedonian,  and 
Kosovan  Parties."  By  1990  a  complex  combination  of  differen- 
tiating factors  again  threatened  to  divide  the  federal  structure  of 
the  Yugoslav  state. 

Slovenia 

Throughout  the  postwar  period,  Slovenia  was  by  far  the  richest 
per  capita,  the  most  ethnically  homogeneous,  and  the  most  open 
to  political  experimentation  of  the  Yugoslav  republics.  In  centu- 
ries of  close  contact  with  Austria,  Italy,  and  France,  it  had  absorbed 
much  from  Western  political  and  economic  thought  (see  The  Slo- 
venes, ch.  1).  Preservation  of  hard- won  economic  advantages  was 
a  primary  consideration  in  Slovenia's  political  posture,  especially 
after  the  1974  Constitution  prescribed  new  federal  budgeting  proce- 
dures. Slovenes  had  always  objected  to  federal  levies  used  to  support 
underdeveloped  economies  in  other  republics.  By  the  mid-1980s, 
Slovenes  were  highly  critical  of  federal  (Serb-dominated)  financial 
policy,  especially  when  the  new  procedures  failed  to  reduce  their 
payments  for  support  of  a  deteriorating  economy  in  Kosovo  and 
when  rising  inflation  hurt  their  economy  (see  Structure  of  the  Econ- 
omy, ch.  3). 

The  combination  of  Western  intellectual  influence  and  increas- 
ing pressure  for  independent  solution  of  economic  problems  led 
to  formation  of  many  official  and  unofficial  noncommunist  political 


200 


Serbian  demonstrator 
burning  photograph 
of  Tito,  Belgrade,  1990 
Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 


groups  in  Slovenia,  which  became  the  center  of  a  major  political 
controversy  in  the  late  1980s.  Several  politically  significant  acts  by 
official  and  unofficial  Slovenian  groups  posed  a  clear  threat  that 
the  republic's  substantial  industrial,  financial,  and  agricultural 
resources  might  be  withdrawn  from  the  federation.  While  loudly 
opposing  the  Serbian  thrust  for  centralization  and  dominance  of 
Kosovo,  the  Slovenes  liberalized  their  own  political  system  by  add- 
ing multicandidate  elections,  open  media  discussion  of  all  issues, 
and  noncommunist  political  groups.  In  1989  the  Slovenian  League 
of  Communists  endorsed  multiparty  elections,  and  in  1990  it  re- 
named itself  the  Party  of  Democratic  Renewal. 

Although  Slovenian  party  president  Milan  Kucan  had  led  a  sub- 
stantial bloc  of  moderates  as  late  as  1989,  the  momentum  of  new 
party  formation  and  the  failure  of  compromise  with  Serbia  brought 
controversial  change  that  threatened  to  carry  the  Slovenes  farther 
from  the  center  of  the  federation.  Among  amendments  added  to 
the  Slovenian  constitution  in  late  1 989  were  provisions  limiting  the 
emergency  intervention  power  of  the  Yugoslav  government  in 
Slovenia  and  affirming  Slovenia's  right  to  secede  from  the  federa- 
tion if  "national  self-determination"  were  not  guaranteed  in  the 
next  round  of  constitutional  changes.  Those  amendments  were 
viewed  as  an  alarming  precedent  by  nearly  all  non-Slovenian  po- 
litical groups,  and  they  were  declared  at  variance  with  the  national 


201 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

constitution  by  an  advisory  decision  of  the  Constitutional  Court 
of  Yugoslavia  a  few  months  after  passage. 

As  economic  success  and  political  reform  progressed  at  home, 
the  Slovenes  increasingly  perceived  Serbian  nationalism  as  a  major 
danger.  For  Slovenes,  Serbian  nationalism  threatened  to  reinstate 
external  control  of  economic  resources  and  political  processes.  At 
the  time  of  the  Fourteenth  Party  Congress  in  early  1990,  the  fed- 
eral government  and  the  LCY  were  split  between  pro-Serbian  and 
pro- Slovenian  factions.  Slovenian  party  officials  condemned  Ser- 
bian oppression  in  Kosovo  and  the  Serbian  demand  for  a  one  man- 
one  vote  national  decision-making  system,  which  would  allow  Serbia 
to  dominate  because  of  its  large  population.  In  1989  the  Front  for 
Independent  Slovenia  appeared  with  demands  for  total  indepen- 
dence. Slovenia  was  the  first  Yugoslav  republic  ever  to  hold  multi- 
party elections,  in  early  1990.  At  the  time  of  the  elections,  the 
Slovenian  Social  Democratic  Alliance  was  one  of  only  two  Yugo- 
slav noncommunist  parties  to  have  expanded  past  republican  bor- 
ders. That  group  was  part  of  a  coalition  called  Demos,  which  easi- 
ly won  the  first  (parliamentary)  phase  of  elections,  defeating  Ku- 
can's  former  communists  with  a  platform  that  included  secession 
from  Yugoslavia.  In  the  presidential  runoff,  the  popular  reformist 
Kucan  won,  making  him  the  first  freely  elected  communist  head 
of  government  in  Eastern  Europe  and  creating  a  mixed  republi- 
can government  in  Slovenia. 

Serbia 

Serbia  was  the  largest  of  the  Yugoslav  republics  in  population 
and  territory  (see  table  19,  Appendix).  Serbs  also  had  the  largest 
total  ethnic  representation  in  the  other  republics.  Throughout  the 
twentieth  century,  the  Serbs  saw  themselves  as  the  basis  of  whatever 
Yugoslav  federation  existed  because  of  their  central  role  in 
nineteenth-century  liberation  struggles  and  in  both  world  wars.  Af- 
ter 1945  this  concept  was  represented  in  a  consistent  Serbian  drive 
for  strong  federal  government  and  a  strong,  centralized  LCY.  Vir- 
tually all  the  steps  in  postwar  political  decentralization  diminished 
Serbian  dominance  by  giving  equal  status  to  all  republics  and 
weakening  federal  institutions.  Under  Aleksandar  Rankovic,  Ser- 
bia conducted  a  Serbianization  campaign  against  ethnic  minori- 
ties in  Vojvodina,  Kosovo,  and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  to  advance 
Yugoslav  unity.  Rankovic 's  fall  in  1966  weakened  this  drive,  and 
the  party  reforms  of  the  1960s  and  1970s  weakened  Serbian  in- 
fluence on  party  appointments  in  other  republics.  The  long  politi- 
cal dominance  of  Tito,  a  Croat,  also  diminished  Serbian  power. 


202 


Government  and  Politics 


The  1974  Constitution  rekindled  the  Serbian  drive  for  dominance 
by  limiting  Serbian  control  of  Kosovo  and  Vojvodina,  constituent 
provinces  with  large  non-Slav  ethnic  groups.  By  applying  the  con- 
sensus principle  to  the  assemblies  of  the  republics,  the  1974  Con- 
stitution gave  Kosovo  and  Vojvodina  virtual  veto  power  within  the 
Serbian  assembly.  This  was  a  serious  obstacle  to  Serbian  control 
over  Kosovo  in  the  face  of  a  strong  Albanian  separatist  movement 
in  the  province.  Therefore,  recapture  of  the  Serbian  provinces  be- 
came the  chief  political  goal  of  all  Serbian  leaders  after  1974.  In 
1980  a  new  generation  of  Serbian  political  leaders  appeared,  led 
by  the  moderate  Ivan  Stambolic.  Stambolic  used  conciliation  and 
his  considerable  national  stature  to  seek  the  approval  of  the  other 
republics  for  reducing  provincial  autonomy.  Failing  in  this  effort, 
Stambolic  was  displaced  in  1987  by  his  protege,  Slobodan  Milo- 
sevic. As  head  of  the  League  of  Communists  of  Serbia,  Milosevic 
used  the  nationalist  appeal  of  the  Kosovo  issue  and  a  national  eco- 
nomic crisis  to  overcome  the  Stambolic  faction.  Milosevic's  ascen- 
dancy was  a  triumph  for  the  concept  of  a  monolithic  Serbian 
communist  party  permitting  no  dissent  and  aiming  for  ultimate 
dominance  of  the  LCY. 

In  1988  Serbian  officials  began  orchestrating  mass  demonstra- 
tions to  support  the  Serbian  position  in  Kosovo.  These  demonstra- 
tions led  to  purges  of  the  party  leadership  in  both  Kosovo  and 
Vojvodina.  The  main  goal  of  the  purges  was  to  ensure  passage  of 
amendments  to  the  Serbian  constitution  that  effectively  abolished 
the  autonomy  of  the  provinces  in  the  name  of  Serbian  political  unity. 
Party  leaders  in  other  republics  condemned  both  the  purges  and 
the  amendments.  Serbia  was  expected  to  make  a  strong  effort  to 
influence  a  new  round  of  amendments  to  the  federal  Constitution, 
scheduled  for  1992,  toward  recentralizing  political  institutions  under 
greater  Serbian  control. 

At  the  end  of  the  1980s,  Milosevic  completely  dominated  Serbi- 
an politics,  using  mass  demonstrations  and  media  campaigns  in 
every  republic  except  Slovenia  to  stir  support  for  Serbia  against 
the  Kosovo  drive  for  separatism.  In  1989  Serbia  established  direct 
popular  election  of  its  president  and  assembly  delegates,  but  nomi- 
nation of  all  candidates  remained  under  party  control.  The  idea 
of  legalizing  opposition  parties  received  little  attention  by  the  Ser- 
bian party,  which  through  1990  gave  only  lip  service  to  pluralism 
within  the  party.  Nonpolitical  alternative  groups  such  as  the 
Writers'  Association  of  Serbia  were  permitted.  By  1990  the  dic- 
tatorial and  manipulative  image  of  Milosevic,  particularly  his 
unyielding  approach  to  the  Kosovo  issue,  had  isolated  Serbia  po- 
litically within  the  federation.  Only  Montenegro  continued  to  vote 


203 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

consistently  with  Serbia  on  federal  issues.  By  contrast,  Milosev- 
ic's tough  nationalist  approach  to  "Serbian  unification"  made  him 
very  popular  with  his  fellow  Serbs,  who  often  compared  him  to 
Tito.  In  1989  Milosevic  was  elected  by  a  wide  margin  as  president 
of  Serbia  on  a  platform  of  political  and  economic  reform.  The  Serb- 
Slovene  conflict  escalated  in  1990  when  the  Serbian  government 
ordered  the  severing  of  commercial  ties  with  Slovenia  in  retalia- 
tion for  the  Slovenian  prohibition  of  Serbian  nationalist  demon- 
strations in  Ljubljana. 

Kosovo 

The  province  of  Kosovo,  formerly  called  Kosovo-Metohija,  be- 
came the  locus  of  an  important  political  issue  during  the  late  1960s. 
Removal  of  the  Rankovic  state  security  system  in  1 966  allowed  the 
ethnic  Albanian  majority  in  Kosovo  to  demonstrate  for  improve- 
ment of  very  poor  economic  and  political  conditions.  In  the  next 
decade,  a  number  of  Albanian  nationalist  groups  were  active  on 
a  small  scale  in  Kosovo.  The  decentralizing  effect  of  the  1974  Con- 
stitution further  reduced  oppression  of  Albanians  in  the  province; 
however,  loosening  state  control  increased  the  scale  and  visibility 
of  nationalist  disturbances  in  the  1970s.  Large-scale  demonstra- 
tions in  1981  led  to  a  complete  purge  of  the  Kosovo  party,  a  harsh 
security  crackdown,  and  bitter  relations  between  Albania  and  Yu- 
goslavia (see  Foreign  Policy,  this  ch.). 

In  the  1980s,  the  gravity  of  the  Kosovo  issue  increased  for  several 
reasons:  Kosovo's  drive  for  republic  status  or  total  separation  in- 
creasingly was  supported  by  blatant  Albanian  intervention;  Yu- 
goslavia's richest  republics  were  frustrated  by  federal  investment 
requirements  designed  to  improve  Kosovo's  economic  situation 
without  any  return  for  their  money;  and  uncontrollable  national- 
ism in  one  part  of  the  federation  threatened  to  encourage  similar 
bursts  of  independence  elsewhere  in  the  multinational  state.  The 
use  of  the  Kosovo  issue  to  reinspire  Serbian  nationalism  was  espe- 
cially worrisome  to  other  republics,  while  it  radicalized  most  of  Yu- 
goslavia's Albanian  population.  In  1989  Milosevic  called  Kosovo 
"the  heart  of  Serbia,"  citing  Kosovo's  history  as  the  center  of  the 
medieval  Serbian  kingdom  that  ended  in  a  storied  defeat  by  the 
Turks  in  1389  (see  The  Serbs  and  Serbia,  Vojvodina,  and  Mon- 
tenegro, ch.  1).  However,  Kosovo  had  similar  historical  significance 
for  its  largely  Albanian  population  of  the  late  twentieth  century; 
this  created  an  ethnic  political  struggle  that  some  observers  com- 
pared to  the  West  Bank  situation  in  the  Middle  East. 

By  1988  intensified  political  demonstrations  and  the  deadlock 
of  the  Serbian  and  Albanian  wings  of  the  Kosovo  party  provided  a 


204 


Nationalist  Serbs  in  anti-Tito  demonstration,  Belgrade,  1990 

Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 

pretext  for  political  intervention  by  the  Serbian  government  in 
Kosovo.  A  thorough  Serbianization  campaign  begun  in  1987  had 
undercut  local  compromise  efforts  by  removing  all  party  officials 
showing  sympathy  for  the  Kosovan  nationalist  cause.  By  one  esti- 
mate, 485,000  Kosovans  were  arrested  between  1981  and  1987. 
Civil  rights  increasingly  were  suspended.  The  intervention  also 
eliminated  the  influence  of  Azem  Vlasi,  an  ethnic  Albanian  who 
had  been  a  strong,  moderate  spokesman  for  liberalization  in  the 
Kosovo  League  of  Communists.  Vlasi  and  his  colleagues  were 
purged  in  1989,  and  their  prolonged  trial  by  the  Serbian  govern- 
ment for  counterrevolutionary  activities  brought  strong  condem- 
nation from  Slovenia  and  Croatia. 

The  internal  politics  of  Kosovo  were  dominated  by  severe  eco- 
nomic backwardness  and  hatred  between  the  Albanian  majority 
and  the  Serbian  minority.  Conditions  worsened  in  the  1980s  despite 
disproportionately  high  national  investment  in  the  region  (see 
Regional  Disparities,  ch.  3).  Although  the  Serbs  claimed  that  the 
Albanians  ran  an  organized  campaign  to  drive  out  Slavs,  economic 
conditions  were  at  least  as  instrumental  in  the  decline  of  the  Serbi- 
an population.  Many  Albanians  also  left  to  seek  employment  else- 
where. After  the  purge  of  1989,  the  Kosovo  League  of  Communists 
and  the  provincial  assembly  were  puppet  organizations  controlled 


205 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

from  Belgrade — a  situation  that  exacerbated  nationalist  feeling  and 
protests.  In  1990  political  control  of  the  province  still  eluded  the 
Serbian  party,  which  continued  its  polemics  with  the  Slovenes  and 
Croats  over  Kosovo  policy.  An  opposition  group,  the  Democratic 
Alliance  of  Kosovo,  began  a  propaganda  campaign  against  the  Serbs 
and  the  League  of  Communists  of  Kosovo  that  year.  In  1990  the 
fragmentation  of  the  LCY  at  its  Fourteenth  Party  Congress  pro- 
voked a  new  series  of  violent  demonstrations  against  Serbian  op- 
pression. The  FEC  drafted  a  plan  to  alleviate  the  Kosovo  crisis, 
but  factions  in  the  Federal  Assembly  delayed  its  passage. 

Vojvodina 

Vojvodina,  the  second  province  of  the  Serbian  Republic,  oc- 
cupied a  much  more  favorable  economic  and  geographic  position 
than  Kosovo,  but  its  political  status  was  equally  ambiguous  in  the 
1980s.  This  was  emphasized  in  1981,  when  ethnic  Hungarians 
demonstrated  in  support  of  the  Kosovan  nationalists.  In  1987  the 
president  of  Vojvodina  rejected  categorically  Serbia's  proposal  that 
provincial  autonomy  be  repealed.  In  late  1988  mass  pro-Serbian 
demonstrations  orchestrated  by  Milosevic  in  Vojvodina  forced  resig- 
nation of  the  Vojvodina  provincial  party  presidium,  which  was 
replaced  by  a  pro- Serbian  group.  This  move  ensured  support  for 
the  recentralization  amendments  to  the  Serbian  constitution  in  1989. 
In  the  Serbian  presidential  election  of  1989,  Milosevic  received  a 
strong  majority  in  Vojvodina,  but  not  in  Kosovo.  Vojvodinian  po- 
litical leaders  of  the  new  regime  firmly  supported  amendment  of 
the  Serbian  constitution  and  other  pro-Serbian  positions.  The  region 
had  a  history  of  relative  stability  in  the  Austro- Hungarian  Empire, 
and  the  border  with  neighboring  Hungary  was  tranquil.  The  eth- 
nic Hungarian  population  was  much  smaller  (16  percent  in  1991 , 
down  from  19  percent  in  1981)  than  the  Albanian  population  of 
Kosovo;  the  nationality  key,  which  required  balanced  representation 
in  party  and  state  for  the  major  ethnic  groups  in  Yugoslavia,  did 
not  apply  to  the  ethnic  Hungarians  in  Vojvodina,  but  the  province's 
relative  prosperity  precluded  major  political  unrest.  In  1990  Hun- 
garian activists  formed  the  Democratic  Community  of  Vojvodina 
Hungarians  (DC  VH)  to  advance  cultural  autonomy  and  eventual 
self-rule  for  the  Hungarian  minority.  Strongly  backing  a  united 
Yugoslavia,  the  DCVH  advocated  equal  status  for  the  Hungarian 
language  and  publications  in  Vojvodina  and  restoration  of  auton- 
omy for  the  province  rather  than  independence  from  Serbia. 

Croatia 

Like  Slovenia,  Croatia  was  a  relatively  wealthy  northwestern 


206 


Government  and  Politics 


republic  with  longstanding  cultural  ties  to  Western  Europe  and  a 
tolerance  for  liberal  political  experimentation.  The  removal  of 
Rankovic  in  1966  unleashed  a  strong  Croatian  nationalist  move- 
ment, led  by  the  Matica  Hrvatska  society.  The  movement  played 
on  Croatian  fears  of  Serbian  dominance  and  sought  political  re- 
forms that  would  substantially  increase  Croatian  autonomy,  but 
it  clashed  with  Serbian  and  Slovenian  interests  and  threatened  the 
unity  of  the  federation.  Tito's  intervention  to  purge  the  nation- 
alist elements  of  the  Croatian  party  in  1972  moderated  the  repub- 
lic's political  climate  for  the  next  two  decades. 

The  influence  of  the  moderate  wing  of  the  League  of  Communists 
of  Croatia  was  felt  in  the  Serb- Slovene  polemics  of  the  1980s,  when 
the  Croats  often  attempted  to  act  as  mediators  and  avoid  reviving 
the  ancient  Serb-Croat  nationalist  antagonism  within  their  repub- 
lic. Because  30  percent  of  the  members  of  the  League  of  Com- 
munists of  Croatia  were  Serbs  in  1989,  a  substantial  difference  of 
opinion  arose  by  the  end  of  the  decade  as  to  Croatia's  proper  posi- 
tion toward  the  issues  in  the  Serb-Slovene  dispute.  The  1989  elec- 
tion of  the  moderate  Ante  Markovic,  a  Croat,  as  a  reform  prime 
minister,  moderated  Croatia's  position  on  some  federal  issues.  Be- 
ginning in  1988,  however,  both  official  and  unofficial  Croatian 
sources  were  highly  critical  of  the  policies  of  Milosevic,  particular- 
ly his  manipulation  of  party  politics  in  Vojvodina  and  the  staging 
of  demonstrations  in  the  Croatian  district  of  Knin,  a  Serbian  en- 
clave. The  issue  of  the  Serbian  minority  promised  further  conflict 
when  Vojvodina  proposed  creation  of  four  autonomous  provinces 
in  Croatia,  all  with  large  Serbian  populations.  Croatia  strongly  sup- 
ported Slovenia  on  the  Serbian  trade  embargo  issue  in  early  1990. 
Such  issues  caused  heated  polemics  between  Serbia  and  Croatia 
and  between  pro-  and  anti-Serbian  factions  of  the  League  of  Com- 
munists of  Croatia. 

In  1989  the  League  of  Communists  of  Croatia  followed  the  Slo- 
vene party  in  legalizing  opposition  parties  and  establishing  mul- 
tiparty elections.  The  republic  amended  its  constitution  in  1990 
to  create  the  statutory  basis  for  such  elections.  In  1989  the  League 
of  Communists  of  Croatia  became  the  first  Yugoslav  party  organi- 
zation at  any  level  to  hold  direct  elections  of  party  officials.  Among 
noncommunist  groups  formed  that  year  were  the  Association  for 
a  Yugoslav  Democratic  Initiative  (which  had  thirteen  affiliates 
throughout  Yugoslavia  in  1990),  the  Croatian  Democratic  Union, 
and  the  Croatian  Social  Liberal  Alliance,  all  with  strong  reformist 
platforms.  The  Croatian  Democratic  Union,  led  by  former  Tito  col- 
league Franjo  Tudjman,  won  a  sweeping  victory  in  the  first  Croatian 
ultiparty  election  in  1990,  forming  the  first  postwar  noncommunist 


207 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


government  in  Yugoslavia.  Because  that  coalition  had  a  nation- 
alist and  separatist  platform,  its  success  intensified  the  threat  of 
secession  and  national  collapse.  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  feared 
that  Croatia  planned  a  takeover  of  Bosnian  territory  that  was  once 
part  of  Croatia.  In  the  election,  the  reorganized  League  of  Com- 
munists of  Croatia  and  the  reform  Coalition  of  People's  Accord 
trailed  the  Croatian  Democratic  Union,  in  that  order.  These  de- 
velopments in  Croatia  consolidated  the  "northwest  bloc"  of  Slove- 
nia and  Croatia  in  Yugoslav  politics,  put  those  republics  into  the 
mainstream  of  East  European  political  reform,  and  widened  the 
gap  between  them  and  Serbia. 

Montenegro 

In  the  divisive  late  1980s,  the  political  position  of  Montenegro 
remained  closer  to  that  of  Serbia  than  did  that  of  any  other  repub- 
lic. This  was  because  of  a  close  ethnic  connection  between  the  Serbs 
and  the  Montenegrin  majority  of  the  population  and  because  Mon- 
tenegrins were  the  second  Slavic  minority  "persecuted"  in 
Kosovo — giving  them  an  anti-Albanian  nationalist  cause  similar 
to  that  of  the  Serbs.  Montenegro's  relatively  weak  economy  made 
it  dependent  on  the  continued  strength  of  the  federation.  Like  Ser- 
bia, Montenegro  was  independent  through  most  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  a  factor  that  influenced  the  Montenegrin  view  of  nation- 
alism in  the  twentieth  century. 

Montenegro  was  a  strong  supporter  of  Serbian  constitutional 
amendments  limiting  provincial  autonomy  in  1989,  and  party 
speakers  consistently  criticized  Slovenia's  independent  stance  and 
its  position  on  Kosovo.  Internally,  some  progressive  movement  oc- 
curred in  Montenegrin  politics  at  the  end  of  the  1980s.  A  tradi- 
tionally conservative  government  was  ousted  in  1988,  following 
mass  protests  of  economic  and  political  conditions  by  workers  and 
students,  who  received  strong  support  from  the  Youth  League  of 
Montenegro.  Six  months  later  the  entire  central  committee  of  the 
League  of  Communists  of  Montenegro  was  forced  to  resign,  and 
a  new  central  committee  was  named  following  a  second  wave  of 
demonstrations  against  government  inaction.  The  average  age  of 
the  new  central  committee  was  forty,  and  the  party  filled  many 
positions  with  former  protest  leaders.  This  removed  the  remain- 
ing members  of  the  Tito  generation  from  power  in  Montenegro. 
Nenad  Bucin,  elected  by  referendum  as  Montenegrin  representa- 
tive to  the  State  Presidency  in  1989  advocated  government  partic- 
ipation by  noncommunists.  Alternative  groups  were  nominally 
legalized  in  1989,  but  did  not  immediately  receive  status  or  public 
access  equal  to  that  of  the  Montenegrin  communists. 


208 


Bosnia  and  Hercegovina 

In  the  1980s,  the  political  positions  of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina 
(respectively,  the  northern  and  southern  parts  of  a  region  ad- 
ministered as  a  unit  since  the  eighteenth  century)  were  consistent- 
ly conservative  and  cool  to  the  reforms  adopted  in  other  republics. 
This  political  atmosphere  changed  dramatically  in  the  late  1980s. 
The  entire  political  structure  of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  was  shaken 
by  the  Agrokomerc  banking  scandal  of  1987,  which  the  Yugoslav 
press  compared  to  the  American  Watergate  scandal.  Hamdija  Poz- 
derac,  vice  president  and  representative  of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovi- 
na in  the  national  State  Presidency,  was  forced  to  resign  because 
of  his  link  to  Agrokomerc.  A  number  of  republic-level  officials  also 
resigned,  and  more  than  100  party  members  were  arrested.  The 
scandal  revealed  corrupt  financial  dealings  of  politicians  all  over 
Yugoslavia,  but  public  trust  was  most  badly  damaged  in  the  republic 
where  the  scandal  began.  After  wholesale  replacement  of  political 
figures,  a  young  group  of  progressives,  led  by  Bosnia  and  Her- 
cegovina president  Nijaz  Djurakovic,  came  to.  power  in  1989. 

When  the  new  Yugoslav  State  Presidency  was  chosen  in  1989, 
students  and  progressive  members  of  the  republic's  Socialist  Alli- 
ance of  Working  People  exerted  pressure  for  popular  election  of 
the  new  representative  from  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina.  Although 
this  did  not  occur,  pressure  for  democratization  was  a  significant 


209 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

new  phenomenon.  On  national  issues,  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina 
reflected  its  own  multiethnic  composition  of  Serbs,  Croats,  and  near- 
ly 40  percent  Muslim  Slavs.  The  ethnic  balance,  which  had  been 
maintained  by  conservative  policies  until  the  late  1980s,  was  threat- 
ened by  intensification  of  nationalist  movements  elsewhere  in  the 
federation.  By  1990  the  republic  found  itself  torn  and  manipulat- 
ed by  the  Serb-Slovene  and  Serb-Croat  conflicts.  The  official  po- 
sition of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  in  1990  strongly  supported 
reconciliation  of  ethnic  differences  in  the  federation,  while  defending 
the  ethnic  individuality  of  the  republics  against  homogenization. 

Macedonia 

Next  to  Kosovo,  Macedonia  was  the  most  economically  deprived 
region  of  Yugoslavia.  Like  Kosovo,  it  was  dependent  on  the  richer 
republics  for  financial  support  throughout  the  postwar  period.  For 
the  first  forty  years  after  World  War  II,  political  life  remained  placid 
and  under  the  firm  control  of  the  local  party.  But  with  the  explo- 
sion of  nationalist  feeling  elsewhere  in  Yugoslavia  in  the  late  1980s, 
the  presence  of  substantial  Albanian  minorities  began  to  compli- 
cate regional  politics.  Strikes  and  protests  against  economic  con- 
ditions began  in  1987.  After  that  time,  ethnic  tensions  mounted 
between  Albanians  and  Macedonians,  especially  in  the  Albanian 
ghettos  of  Skopje,  the  capital  city.  Symbolic  acts  by  Macedonian 
authorities  worsened  the  situation.  In  1989  the  Macedonian  assem- 
bly ratified  a  constitutional  amendment  deleting  "Albanian  and 
Turkish  minorities"  from  the  definition  of  the  republic  in  the  1974 
republican  constitution.  This  move,  which  paralleled  the  Serbian 
constitutional  limitation  of  autonomy  in  its  provinces,  drew  criticism 
domestically  and  in  other  republics  for  its  nationalist  overtones. 
Macedonia  also  had  a  centuries-long  dispute  with  neighboring  Bul- 
garia and  Greece  over  the  identity  and  treatment  of  Macedonian 
minorities  in  those  countries.  This  external  conflict  was  unique 
among  the  Yugoslav  republics,  and  it  added  an  independent  qual- 
ity to  the  cause  of  Macedonian  nationalism. 

As  a  small  republic  with  voting  power  equal  to  all  other  repub- 
lics, Macedonia  was  pressured  and  manipulated  by  both  Serbia 
and  Slovenia  in  the  late  1980s.  During  the  late  1980s,  Macedoni- 
an policy  concentrated  alternately  on  allegiance  to  Serbia  and 
Macedonian  nationalism,  depending  on  which  of  two  factions 
prevailed  in  the  local  political  establishment.  In  1990  the  top 
Macedonian  policy  makers  still  strongly  supported  a  united  Yu- 
goslavia and  opposed  legalization  of  rival  parties.  However,  these 
policies  were  increasingly  challenged  by  an  independent  political 
faction  led  by  Vasil  Tupurkovski,  Macedonian  representative  to 


210 


Government  and  Politics 


the  State  Presidency  of  Yugoslavia.  In  1990  Tupurkovski's  faction 
moved  toward  formation  of  a  separate  party  advocating  political 
reform. 

The  Public  and  Political  Decision  Making 

Yugoslavia  had  a  long  tradition  of  open  criticism  of  oppression, 
corruption,  and  incompetence  in  government.  Yugoslav  govern- 
ments also  had  a  tradition  of  selective  repression  of  opposition  move- 
ments and  leaders.  As  the  initial  split  from  Soviet  dogma  widened 
through  the  postwar  decades,  intellectuals  such  as  Milovan  Djilas 
and  Dobrica  Cosic,  and  groups  such  as  Praxis  and  the  editors  of 
youth  newspapers,  took  advantage  of  partial  constitutional  guaran- 
tees to  criticize  their  government  and  society.  In  the  1980s,  selec- 
tive prosecution  for  such  actions  diminished,  and  by  1990  the 
Yugoslav  public  received  a  wide  range  of  information  and  oppor- 
tunities for  expressing  opinions. 

Djilas,  Praxis,  and  Intellectual  Repression 

The  most  celebrated  instance  of  dissident  repression  in  postwar 
Yugoslavia  was  the  case  of  Milovan  Djilas.  His  often-published 
heretical  political  views  brought  Djilas  official  denunciation  by  the 
LCY  and  imprisonment  in  the  1950s  and  1960s,  despite  his  earli- 
er close  association  with  Tito.  Djilas  was  released  from  prison  af- 
ter the  Rankovic  era  ended  in  1966,  but  he  was  harassed  long 
afterward,  and  similar  cases  occurred  through  the  following  de- 
cades. The  majority  of  postwar  dissident  writers  were  students  and 
academics  whose  published  material  criticized  the  Yugoslav  polit- 
ical system  or  advocated  regional  political  diversity.  Mihajlo  Mi- 
hajlov,  for  example,  was  tried  and  jailed  several  times  between  1965 
and  1975  for  propaganda  deemed  dangerous  to  the  state.  In  many 
instances,  established  writers  such  as  the  Serb  Dobrica  Cosic  were 
allowed  to  criticize  the  regime  harshly  (Cosic  called  Tito  a  "spiritual 
nihilist"),  while  less  influential  figures  were  prosecuted  for  express- 
ing the  same  ideas. 

In  1968  a  group  of  intellectuals  connected  with  the  journal  Praxis 
began  conducting  an  open  polemic  with  the  theories  of  party  ideol- 
ogist Eduard  Kardelj .  The  group  soon  gained  a  substantial  audience 
for  its  attacks  on  censorship,  bureaucracy,  and  economic  planning 
mistakes.  Because  the  Praxis  group  used  Marxist  argumentation 
very  effectively,  many  of  its  ideas  were  applied  by  economic  and 
political  reformers  in  the  early  1980s.  Tito  finally  succeeded  in 
silencing  Praxis  in  1975  as  part  of  a  crackdown  on  intellectual  dis- 
senters centered  in  Yugoslav  universities. 


211 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

The  most  widely  publicized  dissident  trial  of  the  1980s  involved 
the  "Belgrade  Six,"  a  group  of  intellectuals  arrested  in  1984  for 
planning  a  meeting  with  Djilas  (whose  views  remained  officially 
heretical).  The  group,  which  for  several  years  had  official  permis- 
sion to  meet,  received  international  publicity  that  eventually  forced 
the  government  to  free  three  members  and  reduce  the  sentences 
of  the  others. 

Throughout  the  1980s,  measures  to  control  free  speech  had  a 
legal  basis  in  the  uneven  civil  rights  provisions  of  the  Yugoslav  Con- 
stitution. The  Constitution  did  not  specifically  protect  privacy  of 
communication  from  police  interference;  the  ill-defined  concepts 
of  "hostile  propaganda,"  "fostering  national  hatred,"  and 
"derogatory  statements"  were  used  to  silence  troublesome  protest 
voices,  most  often  on  the  sensitive  Kosovo  issue;  and  the  lack  of 
a  habeas  corpus  principle  made  arbitrary  detention  legal.  Although 
criminal  trials  in  Yugoslavia  were  open  to  the  public,  political  tri- 
als often  were  closed  in  the  1980s.  Such  techniques  were  used  ir- 
regularly, but  their  existence  remained  a  curb  on  popular  expression 
(see  Dissidence,  ch.  5). 

In  the  1980s,  the  majority  of  known  political  prisoners  in  Yu- 
goslavia were  ethnic  Albanians  involved  in  the  Kosovo  liberation 
movement.  In  1987  nearly  all  prisoners  charged  with  "most  seri- 
ous political  criminal  acts' '  were  in  this  category.  According  to  Yu- 
goslav sources,  1,652  people  were  tried  for  political  crimes  between 
1981  and  1985.  Isolated  crackdowns  on  dissent  occurred  in  Serbia 
(a  political  show  trial  in  1984),  Slovenia  (army  court  proceedings 
against  government  critics  in  1988),  and  Croatia  (a  blacklist  of  Croa- 
tian intelligentsia  in  1984).  But  public  criticism  of  the  government 
continued  in  spite  of  such  measures. 

Intellectual  Opposition  Groups 

The  writers'  associations  of  several  republics  developed  large  fol- 
lowings  in  the  1980s.  The  Serbian  and  Slovenian  associations  ex- 
changed polemics  from  opposite  sides  of  the  Kosovo  issue,  echoing 
the  positions  of  their  respective  republics.  The  national  Writers' 
Association  of  Yugoslavia  held  only  two  congresses  between  1965 
and  1985  because  of  regional  squabbles  within  the  umbrella  or- 
ganization. However,  in  the  late  1980s  the  Slovenian  and  Serbian 
associations  expressed  similar  positions  on  issues  such  as  diversifi- 
cation of  political  parties,  the  danger  of  dictatorship,  and  human 
rights.  In  1982  the  Writers'  Association  of  Serbia,  which  was  es- 
pecially well  organized  and  influential,  formed  the  Committee  for 
the  Protection  of  Artistic  Freedom  in  response  to  the  political  trial 
of  poet  Gojko  Djogo.  In  1986  the  Committee  for  the  Protection 


212 


Government  and  Politics 


of  Humanity  and  the  Environment  was  formed  under  the  auspices 
of  the  Serbian  association,  and  it  was  given  legal  status  by  the 
government.  The  writers'  groups  used  forums  such  as  press  con- 
ferences and  open  letters  to  express  harsh  criticism  of  Yugoslav  po- 
litical life.  The  1984  trial  of  the  Belgrade  Six  caused  Cosic  to  form 
the  Committee  for  the  Defense  of  Freedom  of  Thought  and  Ex- 
pression. This  group  of  highly  respected  intellectuals  issued  peti- 
tions for  drastic  political  change,  and,  despite  being  officially  illegal, 
it  was  able  to  meet  openly  because  of  the  stature  of  its  members. 

Generally  speaking,  Serbia  produced  the  most  vigorous  and 
varied  intellectual  dissent  of  the  1970s  and  1980s.  Most  Serbian 
intellectuals  supported  the  1989  amendments  to  the  Serbian  con- 
stitution, but  at  the  same  time  many  backed  Cosic 's  demands  for 
democratization  of  the  Serbian  system  once  the  two  provinces  were 
"reunited"  with  Serbia.  In  1989  the  Serbian  Writers'  Association 
issued  a  public  appeal  that  included  the  following  points:  aboli- 
tion of  the  single-party  system  and  of  the  LCY's  power  monopo- 
ly; full  respect  for  human  rights;  equal  rights  for  all  citizens  before 
the  law;  equal  rights  to  vote  and  be  elected  to  office,  irrespective 
of  political  affiliation;  an  independent  judiciary;  and  freedom  of 
the  press.  In  trie  same  year,  the  Serbian  group  began  criticizing 
the  nationalist  position  of  Milosevic,  and  some  factions  discussed 
transforming  the  association  into  a  political  party. 

The  Media 

Throughout  the  postwar  period,  the  Yugoslav  press  differed  from 
press  institutions  in  the  other  East  European  communist  countries 
because  it  saw  itself  primarily  as  a  source  of  information  and  only 
secondarily  as  an  instrument  of  party  control — despite  the  official 
party  view  that  the  press  should  be  primarily  a  vehicle  of  political 
education.  In  the  1980s,  the  expression  of  independent  viewpoints 
in  the  Yugoslav  press  generally  grew.  In  1981  protests  by  the  jour- 
nalistic community  broke  a  government-enforced  silence  about  eth- 
nic strife  in  Kosovo.  A  new  federal  press  law  was  passed  in  1985 
to  broaden  and  standardize  the  types  of  information  available  to 
the  public  through  the  newspapers.  During  that  time  the  press  con- 
sistently criticized  government  political  and  economic  policy,  as 
well  as  the  FEC  and  the  national  and  regional  parties.  The  State 
Presidency  received  less  negative  comment.  However,  journalists 
were  required  to  join  the  party-controlled  League  of  Journalists 
of  Yugoslavia,  and  expulsion  from  the  league  meant  the  end  of  a 
career.  Topics  generally  closed  to  objective  press  discussion  in  the 
1980s  were  foreign  policy,  revision  of  official  national  history,  reli- 
gious policy,  and  nationalities  policy.  In  the  politically  charged  period 


213 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

of  the  Fourteenth  Party  Congress  (January  1990),  press  restraint 
decreased  noticeably  as  dissident  movements,  corruption,  and  pris- 
on conditions  received  particular  attention. 

Besides  the  effect  of  censorship,  the  lack  of  a  centralized  infor- 
mation system  also  made  the  flow  of  public  information  through 
Yugoslavia  uneven.  Each  Yugoslav  republic  had  its  own  press 
system,  and  the  media  operated  as  individual  self-managed  enter- 
prises. Tanjug,  the  national  news  agency,  acted  as  the  ' 'official 
source"  of  stories,  and  its  coverage  provided  guidance  in  the  han- 
dling of  controversial  topics.  Because  publications  were  not  sub- 
sidized, the  profit  motive  made  periodicals  responsive  to  reader 
needs. 

All  media  required  the  political  sponsorship  of  the  national  or 
regional  socialist  alliances,  and  each  system  reflected  the  national 
political  position  of  its  region.  The  most  extreme  example  of  this 
in  the  late  1980s  was  the  daily  newspaper  Politika,  published  in  Bel- 
grade. That  daily,  an  object  of  great  respect  since  its  founding  be- 
fore World  War  I,  came  under  the  complete  control  of  the  Milosevic 
government.  As  the  main  organ  of  the  Serbian  nationalist  propagan- 
da campaign  based  on  the  Kosovo  issue,  Politika  engaged  in  sharp 
polemics  with  Delo,  the  official  organ  of  the  Slovenian  Socialist  Al- 
liance of  Working  People,  and  other  daily  publications.  By  1990 
other  elements  of  the  Serbian  media  were  also  controlled  by  the 
Milosevic  faction.  In  general,  the  Yugoslav  youth  press  was  the 
most  troublesome  to  political  authorities;  periodicals  in  this  category 
discussed  all  taboo  topics  without  being  eliminated,  but  they  were 
constantly  harassed  by  authorities.  One  of  the  most  controversial 
periodicals  of  the  late  1980s  was  Mladina,  a  Slovenian  student  weekly 
whose  wide  circulation  spread  the  most  radical  political  ideas  de- 
veloped in  that  republic. 

Censorship 

The  print  and  broadcast  media  were  nominally  free  of  censor- 
ship in  the  1980s,  but  printed  material  was  reviewed  by  official 
publication  boards  that  ensured  party  control.  Those  boards  were 
able  to  stop  publication  of  some  new  radical  periodicals,  but  in  1985 
their  ban  of  Mladina  was  overruled  by  the  Slovenian  supreme  court. 
Only  postpublication  censorship  was  exercised  for  periodicals,  and 
individual  banned  issues  circulated  widely  in  spite  of  the  system. 
Over  a  dozen  Croatian  magazines  and  student  newspapers  were 
banned  because  of  anti-Serbian  positions  in  the  late  1980s.  Late 
in  the  1980s,  book  censorship  was  loosened  and  cases  of  official 
interference  decreased.  The  list  of  taboo  topics  for  books  was  simi- 
lar to  that  for  periodicals.  Foreign  dissident  writings  were  widely 


214 


First  televised  Orthodox  Easter  service,  Cathedral  of  St.  Sava,  Belgrade,  1990 

Courtesy  Charles  Sudetic 

available,  as  were  the  writings  of  Djilas,  which  still  were  banned 
officially  in  1990. 

For  the  first  time  in  1990,  political  opposition  parties  received 
permission  to  televise  their  views  prior  to  an  election.  Slovenian 
and  Croatian  self-managed  television  enterprises  reserved  air  time 
for  all  parties  participating  in  elections  for  the  republican  assem- 
blies. The  stations  observed  strict  equality  of  time  allotment.  Com- 
mercial purchase  of  additional  time  was  forbidden,  to  avoid  giving 
richer  parties  disproportionate  access  to  the  viewing  public. 

Foreign  Policy 

With  the  exception  of  the  first  three  postwar  years,  the  foreign 
policy  of  Yugoslavia  emphasized  balanced  relations  between  East 
and  West  and  strong  links  with  as  many  nonaligned  nations  as  pos- 
sible. As  in  domestic  politics,  a  primary  motivation  for  this  course 
was  to  differentiate  Yugoslavia  from  the  members  of  the  Soviet 
alliance;  having  made  that  distinction  in  all  areas  by  1952,  Tito 
pragmatically  sought  commercial  and  political  relations  wher- 
ever and  whenever  advantageous.  After  weathering  numerous  crises 
in  its  relations  with  both  superpowers,  Yugoslavia  entered  the  1990s 
as  titular  head  of  a  diminished  Nonaligned  Movement;  political 
and  economic  reversals  in  Eastern  Europe  and  the  Soviet  Union 


215 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

forced  Yugoslavia  to  move  closer  to  the  wealthy  West  European 
nations,  with  the  ultimate  goal  of  membership  in  the  European  Eco- 
nomic Community  (EEC — see  Glossary). 

The  Government  Foreign  Policy  Mechanism 

The  foreign  policy  of  Yugoslavia  was  conducted  at  the  highest 
level  by  the  State  Presidency,  the  president  of  which  was  the  offi- 
cial representative  of  the  country.  The  line  of  authority  extended 
from  the  president  through  the  FEC  to  the  Secretariat  for  Foreign 
Affairs.  Nationality  quotas  for  personnel  in  the  secretariat  and 
subordinate  levels  ensured  each  republic  an  equal  voice  in  foreign 
policy  formulation.  The  quota  was  also  used  in  making  foreign 
service  appointments  and  staffing  embassies  abroad — a  policy  criti- 
cized because  it  did  not  always  permit  the  most  qualified  person- 
nel access  to  foreign  policy  positions.  Committees  of  the  LCY  and 
SA WPY  (also  apportioned  by  nationality)  also  had  significant  for- 
eign policy  input. 

Nonalignment 

Beginning  with  its  exit  from  the  Soviet  sphere  in  1948,  Yugo- 
slavia sought  appropriate  alliances  to  ensure  its  security.  As  early 
as  1953,  relations  were  established  with  nonaligned  Asian  coun- 
tries. In  1954  Tito  suggested,  then  withdrew  from,  a  Balkan  alli- 
ance with  Greece  and  Turkey.  When  the  colonial  empires  of  the 
West  European  nations  broke  up  in  the  decades  following,  Yugo- 
slavia became  a  leader  of  the  bloc  of  new  nations  created  by  that 
process.  The  former  colonies  considered  the  economic  and  politi- 
cal success  of  the  Yugoslav  nonalignment  policy  a  positive  model, 
and  Tito  joined  Jawaharlal  Nehru  of  India,  Sukarno  of  Indone- 
sia, Kwame  Nkrumah  of  Ghana,  and  Gamal  Abdul  Nasser  of  Egypt 
as  founders  of  the  Nonaligned  Movement  in  the  mid-1950s.  Found- 
ing principles  of  that  movement  were  opposition  to  all  foreign  in- 
tervention and  peaceful  coexistence.  The  official  nonaligned  position 
of  Yugoslavia  was  declared  at  the  Belgrade  Conference  of 
Nonaligned  Nations  in  1961.  In  the  1950s  and  1960s,  Yugosla- 
via's position  gave  it  international  prestige  because  both  the  Unit- 
ed States  and  the  Soviet  Union  required  support  from  the  growing 
bloc  of  independent  nations  it  led. 

Within  the  nonaligned  group,  Yugoslavia  leaned  strongly  toward 
the  Arab  nations  and  supported  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organi- 
zation against  Israel — mainly  because  of  Tito's  friendship  with 
Nasser  and  the  influence  of  the  large  Yugoslav  Muslim  popula- 
tion. Tito  personified  Yugoslavia's  international  position;  in  the 
1960s  and  1970s,  he  traveled  worldwide  to  cement  relations  in  the 


216 


Government  and  Politics 


Third  World.  Although  Nikita  S.  Khrushchev  had  mended  Soviet 
relations  with  Yugoslavia  in  the  mid-1950s,  that  relationship  was 
threatened  by  periodic  Soviet  expansionism,  and  Tito  successfully 
sought  to  balance  Western  and  Soviet  influences.  Part  of  that 
balancing  act  was  development  of  close  relations  with  China  in  the 
1970s;  at  that  time,  China  was  hostile  to  the  Soviet  Union  and  open- 
ing communications  with  the  West,  making  it  an  effective  coun- 
terbalance for  Tito.  Yugoslav-Chinese  relations  remained  warm 
through  the  1980s. 

In  the  1970s,  Yugoslavia  became  a  moderate  force  in  the 
Nonaligned  Movement,  balancing  the  strong  pro- Soviet  influence 
of  Fidel  Castro  (to  whom  Tito  had  initially  given  strong  support). 
Castro's  election  as  chairman  of  the  Nonaligned  Movement  in  1979 
was  considered  a  defeat  for  Tito.  Between  1955  and  1979,  the 
Nonaligned  Movement  grew  from  25  to  117  member  countries, 
largely  because  of  Tito's  leadership.  When  Tito  died  in  1980,  Yu- 
goslavia lost  its  leadership  role  to  Cuba,  and  the  Nonaligned  Move- 
ment leaned  decidedly  toward  the  Soviet  side.  But  Yugoslavia 
regained  an  important  role  in  the  eighth  summit  meeting  (1986) 
of  the  organization.  In  1989  the  ninth  summit  meeting  was  held 
in  Belgrade,  and  Yugoslavia  became  leader  of  the  movement  until 
1992.  In  the  1980s,  the  main  Yugoslav  role  in  the  Nonaligned 
Movement  was  using  the  provisions  of  the  Helsinki  Accords  (see 
Glossary)  of  1975  to  lobby  for  easing  the  Cold  War  tensions  that 
flared  in  Europe  and  mediating  conflicts  between  Third  World  na- 
tions such  as  Iraq  and  Iran.  Yugoslavia  was  especially  concerned 
with  Middle  Eastern  events  that  endangered  its  oil  supply. 

Although  emphasis  changed  somewhat,  Tito's  nonalignment  poli- 
cy remained  in  place  for  the  entire  decade  following  his  death. 
Although  hosting  the  meeting  and  regaining  chairmanship  of  the 
Nonaligned  Movement  improved  Yugoslavia's  international  stand- 
ing, many  Yugoslavs  (especially  in  Croatia  and  Slovenia)  ques- 
tioned the  value  of  a  leadership  position  among  a  group  of 
impoverished  nations  long  after  the  initial  purpose  of  the  move- 
ment had  changed.  The  credibility  of  the  movement  decreased  in 
the  1980s  because  of  Castro's  influence,  and  by  1990  the  disap- 
pearance of  monolithic  communism  from  Eastern  Europe  had 
changed  the  entire  definition  of  nonalignment.  Even  in  Tito's  time, 
Yugoslavia  gained  only  prestige  from  its  leadership  of  Third  World 
countries  poorer  than  itself;  it  lost  much  money  in  unrepaid  loans 
to  those  countries.  As  the  1990s  began,  domestic  pressures  increased 
to  strengthen  political  and  economic  ties  with  Western  Europe, 
which  could  provide  much-needed  economic  aid. 


217 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

The  Soviet  Union 

Yugoslav  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  remained  stable  in  the 
decade  after  Tito's  death.  Through  the  mid-1980s,  Yugoslav  poli- 
cy toward  the  Soviet  Union  was  partly  based  on  the  possibility  that 
one  side  in  an  internal  Yugoslav  ethnic  conflict  might  invite  the 
Soviet  Union  to  intervene,  providing  a  pretext  for  restoring  Yu- 
goslavia to  the  Warsaw  Pact.  The  1948  rift  with  the  Soviet  Union 
was  repaired  by  the  Belgrade  Declaration  of  1955,  in  which  the 
Soviet  Union  conceded  the  right  of  other  socialist  countries  to  in- 
terpret Marxism  in  their  own  way.  But  in  the  ensuing  three  de- 
cades, covert  Soviet  contacts  with  illegal  nationalist  and  pro-Soviet 
groups  in  Yugoslavia  kept  alive  the  fear  that  the  Soviet  Union  might 
intervene  (see  Threat  Perception,  ch.  5). 

As  a  leader  of  the  nonaligned  movement,  Tito  often  criticized 
Soviet  policy.  His  stand  against  the  1968  Soviet-led  Warsaw  Pact 
invasion  of  Czechoslovakia  caused  friction,  and  relations  remained 
uneven  throughout  the  1970s.  That  decade  culminated  in  a  strong 
Yugoslav  condemnation  of  the  Soviet  invasion  of  Afghanistan  in 
1979.  But  in  the  1980s,  official  Yugoslav  policy  favored  political 
and  economic  rapprochement,  and  the  Soviet  Union  remained  the 
country's  largest  trading  partner  throughout  the  period  (see  Trading 
Partners,  ch.  3).  In  that  decade,  the  two  countries  remained  ideo- 
logical rivals  in  the  socialist  world,  with  Afghanistan  as  the  chief 
subject  of  Yugoslav  polemics  against  Soviet  policy.  In  1988  Soviet 
General  Secretary  Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev  and  Defense  Minister 
Dmitrii  Iazov  made  official  visits  to  reassure  the  Yugoslavs  of  con- 
tinued military  and  political  stability  between  the  two  countries. 
The  fall  of  East  European  communist  governments  in  1989  eased 
the  threat  that  the  Soviet  Union  would  invade  Yugoslavia  under 
any  circumstances  and  provided  an  opportunity  to  shift  the  em- 
phasis of  Yugoslav  trade  toward  the  West. 

The  United  States 

Tito  cultivated  positive  relations  with  the  United  States  to  balance 
Soviet  influence  and  to  receive  the  substantial  American  econom- 
ic aid  that  became  available  after  his  break  with  the  Soviet  Union. 
Tension  periodically  resulted  from  Yugoslav  Middle  East  policy, 
Tito's  frequent  support  of  Soviet  causes,  and  from  terrorist  acts 
committed  by  Yugoslav  emigres  in  the  United  States.  However, 
Tito  and  his  successors  found  important  issues  upon  which  to  con- 
tinue friendly  relations  with  the  United  States  through  the  1980s. 
The  Yugoslav  policy  of  nonalignment  precluded  formal  security 
treaties,  but  protection  of  Yugoslav  soveignty  was  internationally 


218 


Prime  Minister  Markovic  with  President  Bush,  Washington,  1990 
Courtesy  White  House  Photography  Office 

understood  as  part  of  United  States-European  policy — especially 
after  President  Jimmy  Carter  made  a  specific  policy  statement  to 
that  effect  in  1978.  Tension  rose  in  1989,  when  resolutions  of  the 
United  States  Congress  condemned  Yugoslav  human  rights  poli- 
cies and  were  labeled  as  uninformed  interference  in  internal  Yu- 
goslav affairs.  The  stimulus  for  this  disagreement  was  Yugoslav 
policy  toward  Dobroslav  Paraga,  an  exiled  Croatian  separatist  who 
became  a  leader  of  extremist  emigres  in  North  America.  On  an 
official  visit  to  the  United  States  following  that  exchange,  Prime 
Minister  Markovic  explained  Yugoslav  reform  and  human  rights 
policies,  and  United  States  officials  urged  that  Yugoslavia  follow 
the  contemporary  reform  pattern  of  other  East  European  communist 
countries.  Both  sides  agreed  that  the  visit  improved  the  climate 
for  United  States  financial  support  of  economic  reforms  and  Unit- 
ed States  understanding  of  internal  Yugoslav  political  conditions. 

European  Neighbors 

The  issue  of  Macedonian  nationality  caused  friction  between  Yu- 
goslavia and  neighboring  Bulgaria  and  Greece,  which  contained 
large  Macedonian  minorities.  Throughout  the  postwar  period,  the 
Yugoslav  press  propagandized  against  Bulgarian  expansionist  poli- 
cies toward  Macedonia  and  the  failure  to  recognize  Macedonians 


219 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


as  a  separate  nationality  in  Bulgaria.  Although  the  Bulgarian  press 
reciprocated  much  more  strongly  after  the  1989  change  of  govern- 
ment in  Bulgaria,  the  two  governments  showed  little  desire  to  mag- 
nify an  issue  that  had  been  at  the  center  of  the  Balkan  wars  before 
World  War  I  (see  The  Balkan  Wars  and  World  War  I,  ch.  1). 

In  the  mid-1980s,  the  Yugoslav  press  strongly  criticized  the  Greek 
government  for  failing  to  recognize  the  Macedonian  Orthodox 
Church.  But  relations  with  Greece  were  generally  warm  in  the 
1980s,  and  Yugoslavia  backed  the  Greeks  against  the  Turks  on  the 
Cyprus  issue  early  in  the  decade.  For  diplomatic  reasons,  the  Yu- 
goslav government  did  not  permit  Macedonian  nationalist  writers 
to  protest  Greek  discrimination  against  Macedonians  until  the 
1980s.  The  other  ethnic-based  foreign  policy  dilemma  was  deal- 
ing with  Albanian  intervention  in  Kosovo.  The  enmity  between 
Yugoslavia  and  Albania  began  with  Tito's  repudiation  of  Stalinism 
and  with  personal  animosity  between  Albanian  president  Enver 
Hoxha  and  Tito.  Stalinist  Albania  and  revisionist  Yugoslavia  re- 
mained hostile  throughout  the  postwar  period,  with  a  brief  thaw 
in  the  late  1960s.  For  Albania,  economic  discontent  in  adjoining 
Kosovo  was  a  prime  weapon  throughout  the  postwar  period  in 
preventing  penetration  of  Yugoslav  influence  into  its  closed  society 
and  in  discrediting  Yugoslav  economic  and  political  innovations. 
Albania  maintained  strong  cultural  ties  with  Kosovo  (which  con- 
tained over  half  as  many  Albanians  as  Albania  itself),  while  remain- 
ing isolated  from  the  rest  of  Yugoslavia.  Officially,  the  Yugoslav 
government  strongly  condemned  Albanian  intervention  in  Kosovo, 
although  the  northwestern  republics  of  Croatia  and  Slovenia  insisted 
that  Serbian  intransigence  was  the  root  of  the  Kosovo  problem. 

Relations  with  Hungary,  the  other  neighbor  with  a  substantial 
ethnic  minority  within  Yugoslavia,  continued  without  major  com- 
plication. In  light  of  Hungarian  political  reforms,  new  agreements 
in  1989  and  1990  demilitarized  the  common  border  and  expanded 
economic  ties,  emphasizing  regional  cooperation  that  also  includ- 
ed Austria. 

The  Middle  East  and  Western  Europe 

Yugoslav  policy  toward  the  Middle  East  continued  the  Tito  line 
through  the  1980s,  supporting  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organiza- 
tion (PLO)  and  forswearing  relations  with  Israel.  This  policy  con- 
tinued to  be  driven  by  the  need  to  protect  sources  of  oil  and  other 
imports  from  that  area.  When  PLO  head  Yasir  Arafat  made  an 
official  visit  to  Belgrade  in  1988  to  urge  that  Yugoslavia  act  as  a 
peacemaker  in  the  Middle  East,  he  was  received  warmly.  In  1989 
Israel  urged  that  Yugoslavia  accord  it  diplomatic  recognition  so 


220 


Government  and  Politics 


that  the  1989  summit  meeting  of  the  Nonaligned  Movement  also 
could  be  used  for  advancing  peace  in  the  Middle  East.  Yugoslavia 
did  not  do  so.  At  the  turn  of  the  decade,  Yugoslavia  also  sought 
to  resume  the  close  relations  with  Egypt  initially  established  be- 
tween Tito  and  Nasser.  This  was  given  priority  because  Egypt  had 
rejoined  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  become  a  major  force  in 
regional  peace  efforts. 

By  1990  Yugoslavia's  relations  with  West  European  nations  were 
defined  by  the  need  to  participate  more  fully  in  European  markets 
and  alleviate  a  grave  balance  of  payments  situation.  Budimir  Lon- 
car,  secretary  for  foreign  affairs  in  the  Markovic  government,  was 
especially  active  in  talks  with  Italy  and  the  Federal  Republic  of  Ger- 
many (West  Germany),  Yugoslavia's  largest  West  European  trade 
partners  in  the  1980s,  at  the  turn  of  the  decade  (see  Foreign  Trade, 
ch.  3).  In  the  case  of  both  countries,  past  political  issues  hampered 
progress:  West  Germany  continued  to  refuse  World  War  II  repa- 
rations claims  by  Yugoslavia,  and  bad  feelings  were  caused  by  treat- 
ment of  the  Slovenian  minority  in  Italy.  Another  problem  in  the 
late  1980s  was  the  decline  of  leftist  political  parties  in  West  Euro- 
pean countries,  notably  Italy,  France,  and  West  Germany;  those 
parties  naturally  were  more  sympathetic  to  Yugoslav  positions  than 
the  more  conservative  groups  that  dominated  by  1990.  In  its  rela- 
tions with  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO),  Yu- 
goslavia pressed  for  designation  of  the  Mediterranean  Sea  as  a 
"zone  of  peace"  to  eliminate  the  danger  posed  by  American  mis- 
siles in  nearby  Italy  and  to  defuse  tension  in  the  Middle  East. 

Yugoslavia  made  frequent  overtures  for  membership  in  the  EEC 
to  expand  markets  for  its  exports  in  the  1980s  and  to  compensate 
for  increased  protectionism  within  the  community.  The  EEC  made 
clear  the  requirement  that  Yugoslavia  establish  a  national  multiparty 
system  before  admittance  would  be  considered.  This  increased  the 
incentive  to  end  domination  of  the  LCY  and  follow  the  example 
of  liberalization  set  by  1990  in  Eastern  Europe.  Meanwhile,  Yu- 
goslavia built  a  potential  bridge  to  the  EEC  by  establishing  closer 
ties  with  members  of  the  European  Free  Trade  Association 
(EFT A — see  Glossary),  a  group  of  neutral  European  nations  given 
special  trade  status  by  the  EEC  (see  Trading  Partners,  ch.  3). 

The  Political  Agenda  for  the  1990s 

As  Yugoslavia  entered  the  1990s,  four  major  political  problems 
remained  unsolved:  achieving  meaningful,  nationwide  economic 
reform  to  save  the  country  from  the  economic  decay  that  had  oc- 
curred in  the  1980s;  finding  and  institutionalizing  procedures  for 
compromise  among  regions  with  increasingly  diverse  political  and 


221 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

economic  interests;  forging  useful  political  relations  with  Western 
nations  willing  to  provide  economic  aid  and  making  foreign  poli- 
cy adjustments  to  harmonize  with  new  political  conditions  in  Eu- 
rope; and  negating  the  divisive  influence  of  the  rotation  system  to 
ensure  selection  of  national  leaders  competent  to  focus  attention 
on  solving  all- Yugoslav  issues.  Ultimately,  resolution  of  all  those 
problems  depended  on  restructuring  the  national  political  system 
to  allow  for  multiple  parties  and  accurate  representation  of  cur- 
rent economic  interest  groups;  such  representation  required  a  break- 
down of  the  traditional  regional  fiefdoms  of  party  and  enterprise 
groupings. 

Because  self-managed  socialism  was  the  foundation  of  both  eco- 
nomic and  political  institutions  in  Yugoslavia,  economic  and  po- 
litical issues  were  inseparable  in  the  post-Tito  period.  For  that 
reason,  formation  of  economic  policy  was  the  main  driving  force 
of  political  decision  making  in  the  late  1980s  and  early  1990s.  An 
important  aspect  of  the  economic  reform  issue  was  the  desperate 
need  for  an  all-Yugoslav  program  for  equitable  division  of  the  natur- 
al resources  distributed  so  unevenly  among  the  six  republics. 
Without  unanimous  backing  for  such  a  program  by  all  six  repub- 
lics, only  the  richer  republics  could  function  in  the  market  econo- 
my specified  in  reform  programs;  however,  without  sufficient 
motivation  to  continue  their  financial  contributions  to  the  federa- 
tion, Slovenia  and  Croatia  would  declare  economic  independence 
and  demolish  the  national  economy. 

Because  most  members  of  the  intelligentsia  belonged  to  the  party, 
criticism  and  reform  proposals  from  that  important  quarter  were 
frequently  cautious  in  the  1980s.  Although  new  political  energy 
and  diversity  in  several  republics  promised  the  eventual  reversal 
of  this  tendency  and  the  uprooting  of  old-line  centers  of  political 
power,  such  change  had  not  yet  altered  the  paths  of  political  pow- 
er in  1990.  Historically,  the  shape  of  Yugoslav  regional  political 
interests  changed  only  in  times  of  common  threat  (such  as  inva- 
sion or  economic  disaster)  or  if  a  strong  leader  were  skillful  and 
determined  enough  to  focus  the  attention  of  all  factions  on  survival 
of  the  federation.  In  1990  all  regions  continued  to  declare  their  com- 
mitment to  Tito's  federal  goal  as  a  matter  of  common  survival. 
The  less  wealthy  republics — Montenegro,  Macedonia,  and  Bos- 
nia and  Hercegovina — adhered  most  strongly  to  this  line  because 
they  obviously  could  not  survive  outside  the  federal  structure. 
Meanwhile,  the  most  powerful  republics — Croatia,  Serbia,  and 
Slovenia — took  advantage  of  the  vacuum  in  the  national  leader- 
ship to  alternate  between  defending  the  federation  and  asserting 
local  sovereignty,  depending  on  political  conditions. 


222 


Government  and  Politics 


But  while  politicians  were  swearing  allegiance  to  the  Yugoslav 
nation,  the  updating  and  restating  of  historical  conflicts  continued 
into  the  1990s,  always  threatening  to  overcome  constructive  polit- 
ical approaches.  Long-standing  animosities  remained  between  Ser- 
bia and  Croatia,  the  Albanian  minority  and  the  Macedonians  in 
Macedonia,  and  the  Slavic  minority  and  the  Albanian  majority 
in  Kosovo  (see  Macedonia,  ch.  1;  The  Kingdom  of  Yugoslavia, 
ch.  1;  Kosovo,  this  ch.). 

In  1990  the  Serbian-Slovenian  split  in  the  LCY  severely  limited 
the  unifying  role  of  that  organization  and  its  policy  input  to  the 
government.  Because  the  party  had  played  the  role  of  national  syn- 
thesizer of  interests,  the  LCY  split  also  was  the  final  blow  for  Ti- 
to's concept  of  mandatory  consensus  among  factions  in  national 
decision  making.  Only  the  Yugoslav  government  institutions  them- 
selves remained  in  an  all- Yugoslav  power  role,  but  those  institu- 
tions had  never  been  tested  on  their  own  merits  as  the  final  arbiters 
of  conflicting  interests  on  behalf  of  the  federation  as  a  whole. 

Besides  the  task  of  wholly  remaking  the  Yugoslav  economic  struc- 
ture, the  government  faced  an  escalating  crisis  in  Kosovo.  In  1990 
Kosovo  was  the  most  critical  of  many  domestic  problems  unresolved 
since  the  1980s  because  of  the  struggle  between  the  Serbian  and 
the  Slovenian  factions  of  the  party. 

As  the  1990s  began,  the  political  culture  of  Yugoslavia  was  in 
an  unprecedented  state  of  flux.  To  reach  his  goal  of  separating  his 
government  completely  from  communist  domination,  Prime  Min- 
ister Markovic  pushed  new  laws  that  would  allow  national, 
multiparty  elections  in  1990.  Substantial  opposition  met  his 
proposals  in  the  Federal  Assembly  and  the  State  Presidency, 
however — especially  because  at  the  time  of  the  proposed  changes 
only  Slovenia  and  Croatia  had  committed  themselves  to  a  multiparty 
system  at  the  republic  level. 

In  1990  each  side  in  the  Serbian-Slovenian  conflict  had  goals 
that,  if  reached,  could  threaten  or  enhance  the  health  of  the  politi- 
cal culture.  On  the  one  hand,  a  reasonable  case  was  made  for  a 
strong,  Serb-dominated  state  as  the  most  efficient  way  to  achieve 
any  truly  national  program;  but  on  the  other  hand,  that  scenario 
promised  little  progress  toward  political  reform  or  pluralism,  and 
it  threatened  the  independence  of  other  republics.  Diametrically 
opposed  was  the  position  of  Croatia  and  Slovenia,  which  included 
political  movements  promising  a  highly  diversified  political  culture, 
with  free  input  from  all  parts  of  society.  But  the  efficacy  of  such 
a  culture  in  achieving  short-range,  drastic  national  reform  was  very 
doubtful.  Meanwhile,  the  new  East  European  spirit  of  democracy 
infected  all  the  republics  and  provinces  of  Yugoslavia  through 


223 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

numerous  intellectual  and  media  channels.  Republic  communist 
parties,  many  with  young,  energetic  leadership,  liberalized  their 
approach  to  dissent  from  within,  and  dozens  of  noncommunist  po- 
litical groups  challenged  every  orthodox  belief  of  the  old  order. 
Many  feared  that  these  events  would  mean  total  fragmentation  of 
the  political  structure  and  a  return  to  the  instability  that  preceded 
World  War  II.  But  the  long,  slow  process  of  liberalization  that  Tito 
initiated  in  1948  was  clearly  accelerating  as  the  1990s  began. 

*    *  * 

A  number  of  useful  monographs  on  the  Yugoslav  political  sys- 
tem appeared  in  the  1980s.  The  Politics  of  Ethnicity  in  Eastern  Eu- 
rope, edited  by  George  Klein  and  Milan  J.  Reban,  contains  a  chapter 
summarizing  the  ethnic  dynamics  behind  contemporary  political 
institutions.  Yugoslavia:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society  by  Bruce  J. 
McFarlane,  is  a  multidimensional  account  that  provides  historical 
background  as  well  as  contemporary  analysis,  stressing  the  link- 
age of  economic  and  political  issues.  Harold  Lydall's  Yugoslavia  in 
Crisis  also  emphasizes  economics  as  a  vital  component  of  the  con- 
temporary political  crisis,  with  an  in-depth  description  of  economic 
and  political  institutions.  The  Yugoslavs  by  Dusko  Doder  is  an  in- 
formal cultural  description  providing  much  insight  to  the  behavior 
of  Yugoslav  groups  and  institutions.  Yugoslavia  in  the  1980s,  edited 
by  Pedro  Ramet,  is  a  collection  of  essays  on  political  institutions, 
domestic  issues,  foreign  policy,  and  Yugoslav  political  philosophy. 
Finally,  the  essay  collection  entitled  Yugoslavia:  A  Fractured  Federal- 
ism, edited  by  Dennison  Rusinow,  covers  official  and  unofficial  po- 
litical power  centers  and  their  roles  in  the  decision-making  process 
at  all  levels  of  government.  (For  further  information  and  complete 
citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


224 


Members  of  Yugoslav  People's  Army 


IN  1990  THE  NATIONAL  SECURITY  of  Yugoslavia  reflected 
various  strengths  and  weaknesses  of  its  history,  society,  economy, 
and  politics.  Adhering  to  its  nonaligned  foreign  policy,  Yugosla- 
via belonged  to  no  military  alliance  and  maintained  an  omnidirec- 
tional defense  posture.  Although  potential  invasion  by  the  Soviet 
Union  remained  the  primary  factor  in  Yugoslav  defense  planning, 
external  threats  to  Yugoslavia  were  greatly  reduced  in  1990.  The 
country's  military  doctrine  of  Total  National  Defense  (TND)  em- 
phasized coordination  between  a  standing  army  and  large  num- 
bers of  ordinary  citizens  organized  into  locally  based  militia  units. 
TND  was  designed  to  counter  a  massive  Soviet-led  Warsaw  Pact 
invasion.  It  used  the  wartime  experience  of  Yugoslavia's  partisan 
guerrilla  fighters  as  its  model. 

The  armed  forces  consisted  of  the  Yugoslav  People's  Army  (YPA) 
and  the  Territorial  Defense  Forces  (TDF).  The  YPA,  a  regular 
force  of  more  than  180,000  troops,  was  organized  into  three  armed 
services — the  army,  the  air  force,  and  the  navy.  Most  soldiers  in 
the  YPA  were  conscripts  who  were  led  by  a  professional  officer 
corps.  Apparently  an  effective  fighting  force,  the  YPA  generally 
exercised  control  over  the  large,  militia-like  TDF.  The  YPA  exer- 
cised autonomy  in  military  matters  and  also  exerted  considerable 
influence  within  the  League  of  Communists  of  Yugoslavia  (LCY — 
see  Glossary)  and  the  civilian  government. 

In  1 990  the  YPA  retained  both  popular  prestige  and  priority  ac- 
cess to  national  economic  resources,  but  circumstances  were  chang- 
ing. Some  citizens  increasingly  viewed  the  YPA  as  a  vehicle  for 
domination  by  the  Republic  of  Serbia,  while  others  saw  it  as  the 
country's  only  safeguard  against  divisive  interests.  Meanwhile,  eco- 
nomic stringency  obliged  the  YPA  to  accept  reduced  budgets  and 
manpower. 

In  1990  the  internal  threats  of  nationalism  (based  on  claims  of 
nations  and  nationalities — see  Glossary),  separatism,  and  politi- 
cal and  economic  crises  were  more  acute  than  any  conceivable  ex- 
ternal threat  to  Yugoslavia's  national  security.  The  YPA's  mission 
to  defend  the  country's  independence  against  external  aggression 
was  undisputed.  However,  its  mission  of  protecting  the  constitu- 
tional order  against  change  from  within  aroused  controversy.  The 
LCY  and  the  civilian  government  increasingly  looked  to  the  YPA 
to  ensure  public  order  against  nationalist  and  separatist  activity 
and  the  ensuing  political  and  social  crises.  The  military  strongly 


227 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

supported  continued  survival  of  the  unified  federal  state.  However, 
like  Yugoslav  society  as  a  whole,  the  YPA  was  beset  by  ethnic 
tensions. 

Josip  Broz  Tito,  the  only  modern  Yugoslav  leader  to  successful- 
ly balance  military  and  political  roles,  believed  that  the  YPA  had 
to  protect  the  established  political  and  economic  system  against  in- 
ternal opponents  because  domestic  divisions  would  weaken  the 
country's  defense  against  external  threats.  In  a  time  of  reduced 
foreign  threats,  however,  many  Yugoslav  leaders  believed  the  YPA 
should  restrict  its  role  to  external  defense,  minimizing  its  internal 
security  functions. 

Development  of  the  Armed  Forces 

The  history  of  the  Yugoslav  nations  and  nationalities  is  full  of 
foreign  invasion  and  subjugation.  The  Ottoman  Empire,  Habs- 
burg  Empire,  and  Nazi  Germany  dominated  Yugoslav  territories 
to  a  greater  or  lesser  extent  for  most  of  the  last  500  years  (see  His- 
tories of  the  Yugoslav  Peoples  to  World  War  I,  ch.  1).  Times  of 
relative  security  and  independence  resulted  from  an  overall  stra- 
tegic balance  among  great  powers  or  superpowers  in  Europe. 
However,  the  People's  Liberation  Army  and  Partisan  Detachments 
of  Yugoslavia,  commonly  known  as  the  Partisans  (see  Glossary), 
were  an  important  part  of  the  Allied  effort  in  World  War  II.  Un- 
der Tito  the  Partisans  were  largely  responsible  for  the  liberation 
of  the  country;  after  liberation  they  were  organized  well  enough 
to  control  Yugoslavia  politically.  The  tenacious  struggle  of  the  Par- 
tisans established  a  proud  and  heroic  military  tradition  that  extended 
long  into  the  postwar  era.  The  National  Liberation  War  of  1941-45, 
as  Yugoslav  sources  called  it,  remained  the  central  frame  of  refer- 
ence for  discussing  military  affairs  in  1990. 

Early  Development 

Nomadic  tribes  sporadically  invaded  and  conquered  the  disparate 
peoples  living  in  South  Slav  lands  from  Roman  times  until  the 
nineteenth  century.  The  Serbs  resisted  but  fell  under  foreign  domi- 
nation for  nearly  500  years  after  the  Ottoman  Empire  defeated  them 
at  the  Battle  of  Kosovo  Polje  in  1389.  Of  the  peoples  forming 
modern  Yugoslavia,  only  the  Montenegrins  remained  independent 
through  the  centuries  of  foreign  domination. 

The  South  Slavs  were  intensely  involved  in  the  military  maneu- 
vers, power  politics,  and  alliances  in  Europe  that  precipitated  World 
War  I.  In  1912  Serbia  joined  its  smaller  neighbors  to  drive  the  Ot- 
toman Empire  from  Macedonia  in  the  First  Balkan  War.  The  fol- 
lowing year,  Serbia  successfully  contested  Bulgarian  claims  to  that 


228 


National  Security 


territory  in  the  Second  Balkan  War.  During  the  world  war  that 
followed,  Serbia  was  attacked  by  Austria- Hungary  and  Germany 
on  northern  and  southern  fronts,  and  it  paid  dearly  for  its  earlier 
victories.  In  October  1915,  Serbian  forces  retreated  from  Belgrade 
to  the  Adriatic  Sea.  Evacuated  to  Greece  to  fight  under  a  French 
command,  they  eventually  participated  in  the  defeat  of  the  Cen- 
tral Powers  and  liberation  of  Serbia. 

Like  other  small  states  during  the  years  between  the  world  wars, 
the  Kingdom  of  the  Serbs,  Croats,  and  Slovenes  (as  present-day 
Yugoslavia  was  then  called)  sought  protection  in  alliances  and  col- 
lective security  arrangements.  It  allied  with  Czechoslovakia  and 
Romania  and  signed  a  treaty  of  friendship  with  France.  It  joined 
the  Balkan  Entente  with  Romania,  Greece,  and  Turkey  in  1934. 
This  pact  obligated  each  signatory  to  defend  existing  borders  in 
southeastern  Europe  against  aggression  by  revisionist  powers. 
Nevertheless,  for  self-protection  Yugoslavia  gravitated  toward  Ger- 
many and  Italy  when  the  major  European  powers  failed  to  oppose 
Axis  expansionism  in  the  late  1930s.  Yugoslavia  declined  a  belat- 
ed French  offer  to  conclude  a  mutual  assistance  pact  in  1937.  The 
policy  of  accommodation  to  the  Axis  powers  culminated  in  Yu- 
goslav accession  to  the  pro-Nazi  Tripartite  Pact  on  March  25,  1941 . 

Outraged  at  the  government's  cooperation  with  Nazi  Germa- 
ny, air  force  General  Dusan  Simovic  led  a  group  of  military  officers 
in  a  swift  coup  d'etat.  They  declared  their  objections  to,  but  were 
careful  not  to  abrogate,  the  Tripartite  Pact.  Despite  their  caution, 
Germany  leveled  Belgrade  with  a  massive  air  strike  and  began  a 
full-scale  ground  invasion  of  Yugoslavia  in  April  1941,  without  a 
formal  declaration  of  war. 

World  War  II 

The  thirty  divisions  of  the  Yugoslav  army  were  not  equipped 
or  prepared  to  meet  the  fifty- two  invading  German,  Italian,  and 
Hungarian  divisions  and  the  Bulgarian  forces  that  invaded  Macedo- 
nia. Lacking  modern  equipment  and  adequate  mobility  and  fire- 
power, the  Yugoslav  army  faced  a  surprise  attack  on  several  fronts 
by  superior  and  heavily  armored  and  mechanized  forces.  Yugo- 
slav forces  retreated  rapidly  to  the  center  of  the  country,  attempt- 
ing to  use  the  mountainous  coastal  areas  as  a  base  and  to  maintain 
lines  of  supply  to  Greece  and  the  Allies.  However,  German  forces 
captured  the  supreme  command  at  Sarajevo  on  April  17,  1941, 
and  Yugoslavia  formally  surrendered.  Germany,  Italy,  Hungary, 
Bulgaria,  and  Albania  annexed  or  occupied  parts  of  the  country. 

A  small  group  of  officers  led  by  Colonel  Draza  Mihajlovic  re- 
fused to  surrender  and  continued  to  resist  the  occupation  from  a 


229 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

base  in  western  Serbia.  They  called  themselves  the  Cetnik  Detach- 
ments of  the  Yugoslav  Army  of  the  Fatherland.  The  Cetnici  (sing. , 
Cetnik — see  Glossary)  also  represented  the  royal  government-in- 
exile.  They  received  a  British  military  liaison  officer  and  consider- 
able amounts  of  British  supplies  and  equipment.  However,  they 
avoided  attacking  the  occupiers  because  they  feared  reprisals  against 
the  noncombatant  population.  The  Cetnici  believed  their  military 
actions  could  not  influence  the  course  of  the  war,  and  they  waited 
instead  for  the  Allies  to  defeat  the  Axis  powers.  They  were  later 
discredited  in  Yugoslavia  as  collaborators  because  of  their  unwill- 
ingness to  resist. 

The  Communist  Party  of  Yugoslavia  (CPY)  under  Tito  also  re- 
fused to  accept  defeat.  It  remained  inactive,  however,  until  Ger- 
many attacked  the  Soviet  Union  on  June  22,  1941.  Through  the 
Comintern  (Communist  International),  the  CPY  received  orders 
from  the  Soviet  Union  to  resist  the  German  occupation.  Initially, 
the  military  committees  of  the  CPY  collected  arms  and  organized 
available  manpower.  Then  they  conducted  small  armed  attacks  and 
acts  of  sabotage  against  occupying  Axis  forces.  They  waged  their 
military  campaign  without  regard  to  the  fate  of  civilians  living  un- 
der the  occupation — often  the  occupiers  executed  large  numbers 
of  civilians  in  retaliation  for  attacks  and  sabotage.  The  difference 
in  strategies  and  political  views  quickly  brought  the  Cetnici  and 
CPY  forces  into  a  state  of  civil  war.  The  former  unsuccessfully  at- 
tempted to  attack  Tito's  headquarters  in  November  1941. 

The  CPY  military  wing  formally  became  the  People's  Libera- 
tion Army  and  Partisan  Detachments  of  Yugoslavia  (commonly 
known  as  the  Partisans)  on  December  22,  1941 .  With  approximately 
80,000  fighters,  the  Partisans  fought  occupying  forces,  collabora- 
tors such  as  the  Ustase  (see  Glossary)  in  Croatia,  and  their  politi- 
cal opponents,  the  Cetnici.  By  the  end  of  1942,  the  Partisans  had 
grown  to  150,000  troops  organized  into  two  corps,  three  divisions, 
thirty-one  brigades,  and  thirty-eight  detachments.  Axis  occupation 
forces  launched  several  major  offensives  to  destroy  the  Partisans, 
but  they  failed  in  each  case.  Although  the  Partisans  liberated  some 
areas  of  the  country,  they  generally  avoided  major  engagements 
with  superior  forces. 

Yugoslavia  became  an  unanticipated  theater  of  war  for  the  Axis. 
Large  German  forces  were  forced  to  remain  there  to  protect  lines 
of  supply  to  Greece  and  North  Africa  during  the  critical  year  of 
1942.  Nearly  600,000  Axis  troops,  thirty-eight  divisions  in  all,  were 
needed  to  control  the  country  and  thus  were  unavailable  as  rein- 
forcements for  the  pivotal  battles  of  El  Alamein  and  Stalingrad. 
The  occupation  of  Yugoslavia  drained  significant  Axis  manpower 


230 


National  Security 


and  resources  from  other  theaters  over  a  long  period  of  time.  Par- 
tisan pressure  was  a  factor  in  Italy's  withdrawal  from  the  war  in 
September  1943.  When  Italy's  twenty  divisions  left  Yugoslav  ter- 
ritory, Germany  had  to  commit  even  greater  numbers  of  soldiers 
to  maintain  its  position  there.  At  maximum  strength,  the  German 
occupying  army  included  twenty- six  divisions. 

By  late  1943,  the  Partisans  began  to  resemble  a  regular  army. 
With  captured  or  abandoned  Italian  arms,  they  armed  300,000 
combatants  in  eight  corps  and  twenty-six  divisions.  At  the  end  of 
1943^  virtually  all  Allied  military  assistance  was  transferred  from 
the  Cetnici  to  the  Partisans,  whose  operations  had  the  potential 
of  hastening  the  defeat  of  Germany.  From  then  until  the  end  of 
the  war,  the  Partisans  received  over  100  tanks,  300  field  guns,  2,000 
mortars,  13,000  machine  guns,  and  130,000  rifles  from  Britain  and 
the  United  States.  The  Soviet  Union  provided  even  larger  num- 
bers of  guns,  mortars,  and  machine  guns. 

As  the  Germans  retreated  from  Greece  through  Yugoslavia  and 
the  Soviet  Red  Army  advanced  into  Romania  in  1944,  the  Parti- 
sans cleared  most  of  the  German  troops  from  the  country  while 
simultaneously  battling  their  domestic  Ustase  and  Cetnik  enemies. 
Tito  flew  to  Moscow  to  meet  Joseph  V.  Stalin  and  to  coordinate 
Partisan  and  Red  Army  operations  on  Yugoslav  territory.  The  Red 
Army  wheeled  north  after  entering  the  country  and,  together  with 
the  Partisans,  liberated  Belgrade  on  October  20,  1944.  The  Red 
Army  pursued  the  retreating  German  forces  from  northeast  Yugo- 
slavia into  Hungary,  leaving  the  Partisans  in  control  in  Yugo- 
slavia. The  800,000  troops  of  the  People's  Liberation  Army  officially 
became  the  Yugoslav  People's  Army  (YPA)  on  March  1,  1945. 

Yugoslavia  suffered  1.7  million  dead  during  the  war,  out  of  a 
total  population  of  15  million.  Of  these,  over  300,000  were  killed 
in  action.  Another  400,000  were  wounded.  Yugoslav  sources 
claimed  that  the  Partisans  inflicted  over  450,000  enemy  casualties. 
The  amount  of  Ustase  and  Cetnik  casualties  in  that  total  is 
unknown. 

Postwar  Development 

Demobilization,  begun  in  late  1945,  eventually  reduced  the  size 
of  the  YPA  by  half.  Disagreements  with  the  Soviet  Union  soon 
had  an  impact  on  the  Yugoslav  military  establishment.  The  Soviet 
Union  wanted  its  junior  ally  to  maintain  only  a  small  army  and 
to  depend  mainly  on  the  Red  Army  for  defense.  Although  the  Soviet 
Union  offered  to  train  that  small  army,  the  Yugoslavs  rejected  this 
proposal  because  they  were  dissatisfied  with  the  quantity  and  quality 
of  Soviet  military  assistance.  Tito  also  was  angered  by  Soviet  attempts 


231 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


to  recruit  a  network  of  agents  within  the  Yugoslav  military.  Upon 
the  break  in  Soviet- Yugoslav  relations  in  1948,  the  Soviet  Union 
withdrew  its  military  advisers. 

Yugoslavia's  ability  to  endure  the  Soviet-led  blockade  that  fol- 
lowed the  break  was  largely  result  of  the  loyalty  of  the  YPA  to  Tito 
and  the  country.  To  ensure  control,  Tito  served  as  his  own  minister 
of  defense  until  1953.  From  1948  until  1954,  the  YPA  maintained 
a  constant  state  of  military  alert  to  repel  a  possible  Soviet  invasion 
to  overthrow  Tito. 

The  United  States  was  also  a  large  factor  in  postwar  Yugoslav 
military  policy.  President  Harry  S  Truman  gave  an  indirect  guaran- 
tee of  Yugoslavia's  security  when  he  declared  its  continued  indepen- 
dence to  be  a  national  interest  of  the  United  States.  The  risk  of 
a  possible  United  States  response  to  a  Soviet  invasion  of  Yugosla- 
via outweighed  any  conceivable  gain.  Between  1948  and  1955,  the 
United  States  gave  Yugoslavia  US$600  million  in  direct  military 
grants  and  an  equal  amount  in  economic  aid,  enabling  Yugosla- 
via to  devote  more  of  its  domestic  resources  to  defense.  By  1952 
the  YPA  had  grown  to  500,000  troops,  and  defense  expenditures 
consumed  22  percent  of  the  gross  national  product  (GNP — see  Glos- 
sary). A  formal  United  States  Military  Assistance  Advisory  Group 
(MAAG)  was  established  in  Belgrade  in  1951.  It  operated  for  ten 
years,  disbursing  military  grants  and  arranging  another  US$1  bil- 
lion in  arms  sales  on  favorable  terms.  At  United  States  urging, 
Yugoslavia  sought  a  collective  security  agreement  with  Greece  and 
Turkey  in  1954.  Tito  withdrew  from  that  grouping  before  it  was 
formalized,  however.  Yugoslavia  distanced  itself  from  the  United 
States,  after  Nikita  S.  Khrushchev  repaired  bilateral  Soviet- 
Yugoslav  ties  and  Tito  became  involved  in  the  Nonaligned  Move- 
ment in  the  mid-1950s.  By  the  time  the  MAAG  was  withdrawn 
in  1961,  military  relations  with  the  United  States  had  dwindled 
to  US$1  million  in  spare  parts  and  ammunition  purchased  yearly. 

Yugoslavia  depended  heavily  on  purchases  of  Soviet  arms  and 
equipment  during  the  1960s  and  1970s,  but  the  Soviet  threat  in- 
creased at  essentially  the  same  time.  The  Soviet-led  Warsaw  Pact 
invasion  of  Czechoslovakia  in  1968  forced  a  major  change  in  Yu- 
goslav military  doctrine.  The  surprise,  speed,  and  massive  superi- 
ority of  the  invading  forces  in  Czechoslovakia  indicated  that  the 
relatively  small  YPA  could  not  successfully  use  conventional  tac- 
tics to  defend  Yugoslav  territory  against  a  similar  attack.  A  new 
doctrine  of  Total  National  Defense  (TND)  was  promulgated  to  per- 
mit continuous,  unconventional  warfare  by  the  entire  population 
against  a  massive  invasion  and  occupation.  After  implementing 
the  new  doctrine  in  the  early  1970s,  Yugoslavia  increased  its  military 


232 


National  Security 


contacts  with  countries  other  than  the  Soviet  Union;  in  the  late 
1970s  and  1980s,  it  began  to  buy  more  weapons  from  other  sources 
or  to  produce  them  domestically. 

National  Defense 

In  1990  Yugoslav  military  doctrine  specified  strategy  and  tac- 
tics to  manage  most  likely  security  threats.  The  major  problem  in 
national  defense  was  the  country's  status  as  a  relatively  small, 
nonaligned  country  in  a  volatile  region  dominated  by  two  large 
military  alliances.  Yugoslavia  constantly  measured  its  military  ef- 
forts against  those  of  the  alliances.  But,  because  batdefield,  arms 
development,  and  production  competition  with  the  larger  powers 
was  impossible,  Yugoslav  doctrine,  strategy,  and  tactics  tried  to 
use  limited  national  defense  resources  in  the  most  efficient  way. 

Threat  Perception 

Beginning  in  1945,  Yugoslavia's  geopolitical  situation  made  it 
more  important  than  size,  economic  resources,  or  military  power 
alone  would  warrant.  Wedged  between  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty 
Organization  (NATO;  established  in  1949)  and  Warsaw  Pact  (es- 
tablished in  1955)  alliances  in  the  strategic  Mediterranean  region, 
Yugoslavia  shared  more  than  half  its  3,000-kilometer  land  border 
with  three  Warsaw  Pact  countries  (Hungary,  Romania,  and  Bul- 
garia) and  also  bordered  two  NATO  members  (Italy  and  Greece). 
Neutral  Austria  to  the  north  and  isolationist  Albania  to  the  south 
completed  Yugoslavia's  borders. 

Between  1948  and  1955,  the  possibility  of  a  Soviet  invasion  to 
bring  Yugoslavia  back  into  the  Soviet  orbit  remained  the  largest 
factor  in  Yugoslavia's  perception  of  external  threat.  This  scenario 
involved  a  possible  military  intervention  in  support  of  pro-Soviet 
Yugoslavs  (see  Internal  Security,  this  ch.).  Joint  Soviet-Yugoslav 
declarations  in  1955  and  1956  prohibited  the  threat  or  use  of  force 
in  relations  between  the  two  countries,  but  the  Soviet  invasion  of 
Hungary  in  November  1956  undermined  the  credibility  of  those 
declarations.  The  Soviet-led  Warsaw  Pact  invasion  of  Czechoslova- 
kia in  1968  further  heightened  Yugoslavia's  perception  of  exter- 
nal threat,  leading  to  a  dramatic  shift  in  Yugoslav  military  doctrine 
(see  Military  Doctrine,  this  ch.). 

From  1968  until  the  mid-1980s,  many  Western  and  Yugoslav 
military  observers  conjectured  that  if  a  general  conflict  erupted  be- 
tween the  Warsaw  Pact  and  NATO,  the  Soviet  Union  would  oc- 
cupy Yugoslavia.  Control  of  the  Yugoslav  territory  and  coastline 
would  split  NATO's  southern  flank  and  provide  the  Soviet  navy 
anchorages  and  direct  access  to  the  Mediterranean  Sea.  Meanwhile, 


233 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

the  Soviet  Union  also  menaced  Yugoslavia  by  supporting  with  vary- 
ing degrees  of  enthusiasm  Bulgaria's  long-standing  claim  to  terri- 
tory in  the  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia. 

Albania  also  contributed  to  Yugoslavia's  perception  of  threat  dur- 
ing the  1970s  and  1980s.  Albania  had  a  strong  interest  in  the  large 
ethnic  Albanian  population  in  Kosovo,  economically  the  most  back- 
ward region  of  Yugoslavia.  The  explosive  conditions  in  Kosovo 
caused  by  unemployment,  separatist  movements,  and  Serbian 
repression  created  a  constant  possibility  of  hostilities  between  the 
two  countries.  Albania  could  block  the  Strait  of  Otranto  between 
itself  and  Italy,  denying  Yugoslavia  access  to  the  Mediterranean 
Sea.  The  combined  hostility  of  Albania  and  Bulgaria  posed  a  fur- 
ther threat  to  Yugoslavia.  After  leaving  the  Soviet  orbit  in  1961, 
Albania  preserved  its  military  cooperation  agreement  with  Bulgaria, 
although  it  abrogated  similar  agreements  with  the  other  Warsaw 
Pact  countries.  Continued  relations  between  Albania  and  Bulgar- 
ia hinged  largely  on  their  common  hostility  toward  Yugoslavia. 
Meanwhile,  Yugoslavia  sought  to  counteract  such  proximate  threats 
by  maintaining  good  relations  with,  and  obtaining  military  tech- 
nology from,  other  European  neutrals  such  as  Austria,  Switzer- 
land, and  Sweden. 

After  Mikhail  S.  Gorbachev  came  to  power  in  the  Soviet  Union  in 
1985,  the  perception  of  Soviet  threat  to  Yugoslavia  diminished.  Gor- 
bachev's visit  to  Belgrade  in  March  1988  apparently  allayed  many 
Yugoslav  strategic  concerns.  In  a  declaration  similar  to  those  of  1955 
and  1956,  the  two  countries  again  pledged  respect  of  mutual  security. 

While  in  Yugoslavia,  Gorbachev  addressed  the  concept  of  limiting 
United  States  and  Soviet  arms  in  the  Mediterranean  region.  The 
Yugoslav  reaction  to  Gorbachev's  proposal  revealed  the  influence 
of  the  superpower  balance  in  the  region  on  Yugoslavia's  perception 
of  its  security.  Gorbachev's  proposal  essentially  called  for  the  elimi- 
nation of  tactical  nuclear  weapons  from  United  States  forces  in 
Greece  and  the  United  States  Navy's  Sixth  Fleet  in  the  Mediterra- 
nean. Yugoslavia  opposed  the  proposal  because  it  lacked  correspon- 
ding reductions  in  the  conventional  weapons  of  the  Warsaw  Pact  in 
the  region.  The  diminution  of  NATO  and  United  States  strength 
would  have  reduced  the  relative  security  of  Yugoslavia. 

In  1990  rapid  political  change  in  Eastern  Europe,  possible  Soviet 
troop  withdrawals,  and  the  declining  military  relevance  of  the  War- 
saw Pact  combined  to  decrease  Yugoslavia's  perception  of  exter- 
nal threat.  A  unilateral  Soviet  invasion  had  become  a  virtual 
impossibility.  Moreover,  improved  relations  between  Yugoslavia 
and  Hungary,  Romania,  and  Bulgaria  made  a  coordinated  War- 
saw Pact  invasion  unlikely. 


234 


National  Security 


Military  Doctrine 

Yugoslavia's  Total  National  Defense  (TND)  doctrine  reconciled 
the  country's  domestic  and  foreign  policies  with  its  strategic  reali- 
ties and  limitations.  Formulated  after  the  1968  invasion  of  Czecho- 
slovakia, TND  became  Yugoslavia's  official  military  doctrine  when 
the  National  Defense  Law  of  1969  was  published. 

Yugoslavia's  determination  to  rely  on  its  own  resources  and  to 
remain  independent  and  nonaligned  conflicted  with  strategic  real- 
ity. The  invasion  of  Czechoslovakia  showed  that  the  standing  con- 
ventional forces  of  a  small  country  could  not  repulse  a  surprise  attack 
by  a  qualitatively  and  quantitatively  superior  aggressor.  TND  was 
designed  to  allow  Yugoslavia  to  maintain  or  eventually  reestab- 
lish its  independent  and  nonaligned  status  should  an  invasion  occur. 

TND  prepared  the  entire  population  to  contest  the  occupation 
of  the  country  and  finally  to  liberate  it.  The  Territorial  Defense 
Forces  (TDF)  would  mobilize  the  population  for  this  purpose  (see 
Territorial  Defense  Forces,  this  ch.).  The  combat  readiness  of  the 
TDF  meant  that  the  steps  of  organization  and  training  could  be 
bypassed  after  the  start  of  hostilities.  The  TDF  would  supplement 
the  YPA,  giving  it  greater  defensive  depth  and  an  armed  local  popu- 
lation ready  to  support  combat  actions.  Large  numbers  of  armed 
civilians  would  increase  the  cost  of  an  invasion  to  a  potential  ag- 
gressor. 

The  most  likely  scenario  in  the  doctrine  of  TND  was  general 
war  between  the  Warsaw  Pact  and  NATO  in  Europe.  In  such  a 
situation,  Yugoslavia  would  remain  nonaligned,  and  it  would  not 
accept  foreign  troops  of  either  alliance  on  its  territory  regardless 
of  threats  or  inducements.  The  doctrine  did  recognize  the  likeli- 
hood that  one  side  or  the  other  might  try  to  seize  Yugoslav  territo- 
ry as  a  forward  staging  area,  to  ensure  lines  of  communication, 
or  simply  to  deny  the  territory  to  enemy  forces.  Such  action  would 
be  considered  aggression  and  would  be  resisted.  Regardless  of  ideol- 
ogy, the  occupiers  would  be  considered  Yugoslavia's  enemy,  and 
Yugoslavia  would  immediately  join  the  opposing  side  for  the  specific 
purpose  of  liberating  its  territory. 

TND  was  legally  codified  in  Article  240  of  the  Constitution  of 
1974.  The  article  declares  that  the  armed  forces  consist  of  the  YPA 
and  territorial  defense  units  organized  for  nationwide  armed 
resistance.  It  stipulates  that  any  citizen  who  resists  an  aggressor 
is  a  member  of  the  armed  forces.  Article  238  declares  that  no  one 
has  the  right  to  acknowledge  or  sign  an  act  of  capitulation,  to  ac- 
cept or  recognize  the  occupation  of  the  country,  or  to  prevent  other 
citizens  from  resisting.  To  do  so  is  high  treason.  This  provision 


235 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Figure  15.  Terrain  Considerations  in  Military  Operations 

was  written  to  prevent  an  occupying  force  from  using  a  Yugoslav 
faction  or  group  to  request  and  legitimize  an  invasion.  The  Na- 
tional Defense  Law  of  1982  further  elaborates  these  provisions  and 
explicitly  states  the  LCY's  responsibility  for  defense  efforts. 

Strategy  and  Tactics 

Yugoslav  military  doctrine  assumed  an  omnidirectional  threat,  but 
its  strategy  and  tactics  presupposed  a  heavily  armored  and  mechanized 
Soviet  or  Soviet-led  Warsaw  Pact  invasion,  entering  from  the  north- 
east and  driving  southwest  to  split  the  country.  Major  exercises  were 
held  every  few  years  to  test  the  doctrine  in  action.  Special  attention 
went  to  coordinating  combat  actions  between  YPA  and  TDF  units. 

Yugoslavia's  defense  strategies  were  circumscribed  largely  by 
geography  and  the  size  and  capabilities  of  its  forces  (see  fig.  15). 


236 


National  Security 

However,  military  leaders  believed  that  their  strategy  and  tactics 
were  appropriate  and  viable  and  that  their  manpower  and  equip- 
ment were  sufficient  to  defend  against  anticipated  threats.  Also, 
the  experience  of  the  wartime  Partisans  proved  the  effectiveness 
of  TDF  units  for  national  defense. 

The  events  of  1968  changed  the  previously  exclusive  emphasis 
on  a  regular  army,  conventional  war,  and  the  defense  of  strategic 
areas  in  the  north  of  Yugoslavia.  The  developed  northern  part  of 
the  country  was  recognized  as  virtually  indefensible.  The  major 
cities,  industries,  and  communications  networks  situated  in  the 
northeastern  part  of  the  country  would  be  easy  strategic  targets 
for  a  potential  attacker,  as  such  assets  were  in  the  1968  invasion 
of  Czechoslovakia. 

TND  doctrine  required  the  YPA  to  blunt  or  at  least  to  slow  an 
enemy  invasion  in  the  north.  While  conventional  forces  fought 
defensive  actions  along  a  nationwide  front,  1  million  to  3  million 
citizen-soldiers  would  mobilize  in  TDF  units.  Small  TDF  units 
would  engage  alongside  regular  troops  in  their  local  areas,  with 
TDF  tactics  emphasizing  mobility  and  light  antipersonnel  and 
antiarmor  weapons.  The  terrain  would  become  increasingly  favora- 
ble to  the  defenders  as  fighting  shifted  from  the  northeast  to  the 
less  developed  mountainous  and  forested  areas  of  the  Adriatic 
littoral  and  southern  Yugoslavia.  On  this  terrain  the  tanks,  mecha- 
nized infantry,  and  self-propelled  artillery  of  a  superior  enemy  force 
would  be  less  effective. 

When  possible,  TDF  units  would  coordinate  their  actions  with  the 
YPA.  This  coordination  was  practiced  in  several  major  nationwide 
maneuvers  in  the  1970s  and  1980s.  The  TDF  units  also  were  capa- 
ble of  continuing  action  independently  under  local  commanders. 
According  to  doctrine,  the  TDF  would  resort  ultimately  to  protrac- 
ted guerrilla  warfare  against  an  invading  force  to  turn  a  blitzkrieg 
into  a  costly  and  lengthy  occupation.  Independent  TDF  units  would 
attack  occupying  forces  in  as  many  places  as  possible  and  carry 
out  harassing  actions,  ambushes,  and  sabotage  behind  enemy  lines. 
Yugoslav  military  authorities  believed  that,  based  on  current  esti- 
mates of  relative  military  power  and  the  Partisan  experience  of 
World  War  II,  2  million  enemy  troops  would  be  required  to  sub- 
jugate the  country.  Such  a  commitment  would  deter  a  potential 
aggressor  from  invading  Yugoslavia  while  managing  other  stra- 
tegic requirements. 

Defense  Organization 

In  1990  the  armed  forces  consisted  of  the  Yugoslav  People's  Army 
(YPA)  and  the  Territorial  Defense  Forces  (TDF)  (see  fig.  16).  The 


237 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


FEDERAL  EXECUTIVE  COUNCIL 


YUGOSLAV  PEOPLE'S  ARMY 


ARMY 


TERRITORIAL  DEFENSE  FORCES 


AIR  FORCE 


INFANTRY 
ARMORED  UNITS 
ARTILLERY 
ENGINEERS 
COMMUNICATIONS 
ABC  (ATOMIC, 

BIOLOGICAL, 

CHEMICAL) 

DEFENSE 


NAVY 


AIR  FORCE 
HELICOPTER 

UNITS 
MISSILE  UNITS 
PARATROOP 

UNITS 


SHIPS 

SUBMARINES 
NAVY  AIR  FORCE 
COAST  ARTILLERY 
MARINES 

COMMANDO  UNITS 


STAFFS: 

UNITS: 

LOCAL 

LOCAL 

COMMUNITY 

COMMUNITY 

DISTRICT 

BASIC 

CITY 

ORGANIZATION 

ZONE 

OF 

ASSOCIATED 

LABOR 

DISTRICT 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  "Defense  School:  The  Yugoslav  Armed  Forces — Bulwark 
of  Our  Defense,"  Front  [Belgrade],  November  28,  1980,  in  Joint  Publications 
Research  Service,  Translations  on  East  Europe,  February  4,  1981. 


Figure  16.  Organization  of  the  Armed  Forces,  1990 


professional  YPA  in  turn  included  three  service  branches:  the  army, 
the  air  force  and  air  defense,  and  the  navy.  The  TDF  was  a  large 
militia  force  with  local  units  throughout  the  country.  The  passing 
of  virtually  the  entire  Partisan  generation,  beginning  with  the  death 
of  Tito  in  1980,  removed  a  major  source  of  inspiration  from  the 
Yugoslav  military  establishment.  In  1990  the  leadership  abilities 
of  the  younger  officers,  who  had  experienced  neither  combat  nor 
invasion,  remained  untested  and  largely  unknown. 

Government  Organization  for  Defense 

A  major  issue  in  the  government's  organization  for  defense  con- 
cerned the  position  of  supreme  commander  of  the  armed  forces. 


238 


National  Security 


From  1941  until  his  death  in  1980,  Tito  was  supreme  commander. 
He  achieved  legendary  stature  as  a  military  leader  because  of  his  role 
in  directing  the  wartime  Partisans.  After  Tito's  death,  no  political  lead- 
er carried  the  same  respect  and  authority  with  military  commanders. 

Since  1980  the  powers  of  the  supreme  commander  have  been  dis- 
persed within  the  State  Presidency.  Article  283  of  the  Constitution 
gave  the  Federal  Assembly  (Skupstina)  power  to  declare  war  and  peace 
and  to  ratify  military  agreements  and  treaties.  However,  the  State 
Presidency  had  direct  command  of  the  armed  forces.  The  State 
Presidency  was  authorized  to  make  general  plans  and  preparations 
for  defense,  to  declare  that  an  imminent  danger  of  war  existed,  to 
order  mobilization,  and  to  declare  war  in  the  event  that  the  Federal 
Assembly  could  not  meet.  The  State  Presidency  appointed,  promot- 
ed, and  relieved  general  officers.  Despite  these  formal  powers, 
however,  in  1990  the  State  Presidency  was  not  deemed  likely  to  ex- 
ercise immediate  control  over  the  armed  forces.  Because  of  its  lack 
of  military  experience  and  expertise,  the  State  Presidency  likely  would 
approve  responses  to  crises  and  decisions  on  strategic  issues  that  were 
proposed  at  lower  levels.  Because  of  its  collective  nature  and  annual 
rotation,  the  State  Presidency  could  not  replicate  Tito's  role  as  an 
actual  supreme  commander  (see  State  Presidency,  ch.  4).  As  provided 
in  Article  316  of  the  Constitution,  it  delegated  most  of  its  command 
responsibilities  and  administrative  duties  to  the  Council  for  Nation- 
al Defense  and  the  Secretariat  for  National  Defense. 

Established  before  Tito's  death,  the  Council  for  National  Defense 
was  the  highest  functional  link  between  the  State  Presidency,  LCY 
leadership,  civilian  government,  and  professional  military.  The  council 
was  headed  by  the  president  of  the  State  Presidency,  according  to 
Article  326  of  the  Constitution.  However,  the  Constitution  did  not 
elaborate  on  its  composition  or  the  exact  scope  of  its  work.  During 
most  of  the  1980s,  the  eleven-member  body  included  six  army  generals 
(among  them  the  secretary  for  national  defense  and  the  chief  of  the 
YPA  General  Staff)  and  five  officials  of  the  government  and  LCY. 
The  council  reviewed  national  defense  issues  presented  by  the  secre- 
tary and  his  subordinates.  Its  decisions  were  subject  to  final  approval 
by  the  State  Presidency. 

The  Secretariat  for  National  Defense  organized  and  supervised  the 
armed  forces  on  a  day-to-day  basis.  The  secretary  for  national  defense 
was  always  a  lieutenant  general  or  admiral  who  was  also  a  member 
of  the  Council  for  National  Defense.  National  defense  was  the  most 
highly  centralized  federal  secretariat. 

The  secretary  for  national  defense  exercised  full  operational  con- 
trol over  the  armed  forces  and  was,  for  all  practical  purposes,  supreme 
commander.  He  could  issue  military  orders  and  instructions  on  behalf 


239 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

of  the  State  Presidency.  The  importance  of  this  position  increased 
after  the  death  of  Tito.  The  office  conferred  far  greater  command 
authority  and  administrative  autonomy  than  did  its  counterparts 
in  other  East  European  communist  countries. 

Following  TND  doctrine,  the  secretary  for  national  defense 
planned  operations  on  Yugoslav  territory  and  was  responsible  for 
the  structure,  deployment,  training,  and  equipping  of  the  armed 
forces.  All  YPA  and  TDF  commanders  reported  to  the  secretary 
for  national  defense.  The  three  military  services  each  had  an  as- 
sistant secretary  to  manage  their  administrative  affairs.  The  assis- 
tant secretaries  were  responsible  for  budgets,  military  construction, 
and  regulations.  They  were  also  ex  officio  deputy  chiefs  of  the  YPA 
General  Staff. 

As  principal  deputy  to  the  secretary  for  national  defense,  the  chief 
of  the  YPA  General  Staff  used  the  directorates  of  the  defense  es- 
tablishment to  carry  out  a  variety  of  assigned  administrative  duties 
(see  fig.  17).  In  the  1980s,  service  as  chief  of  staff  was  apparently 
a  prerequisite  for  promotion  to  secretary  for  national  defense. 

The  Council  for  Territorial  Defense  was  established  in  1980  as 
part  of  the  Secretariat  for  National  Defense.  After  the  TDF  was 
established  in  1968,  tensions  arose  between  the  regular  YPA  and 
the  militia-style  TDF.  At  that  time,  the  TDF  enjoyed  high  nation- 
al prestige.  Tito  may  have  viewed  the  TDF  as  a  hedge  against  the 
possible  political  ambitions  of  the  professional  military.  During  the 
Croatian  nationalist  disturbances  of  1969-71,  national  leaders  feared 
that  Croatian  TDF  units  would  become  the  basis  of  an  indepen- 
dent Croatian  army.  Formation  of  the  Council  for  Territorial 
Defense  effectively  brought  the  TDF  under  direct  control  of  the 
secretary  for  national  defense  and  the  YPA.  The  council  included 
representatives  of  the  secretary  for  national  defense  and  those  of 
TDF  commanders  in  the  republics  and  provinces.  It  advised  the 
federal  secretary  on  the  organization,  training,  and  requirements 
of  TDF  units. 

The  executive  committees  of  the  republics  and  provinces  also 
had  secretaries  for  national  defense,  who  retained  some  formal 
responsibilities.  Article  239  of  the  Constitution  required  republics, 
provinces,  and  communes  to  organize  national  defense,  territorial 
defense,  civil  defense,  and  internal  security  measures  in  their  respec- 
tive jurisdictions.  Commissions  for  TND  and  social  self-protection 
existed  for  this  purpose  in  the  local  government  and  LCY  organs. 
They  had  little  authority  for  this  purpose,  however,  beyond  coor- 
dinating mobilization  and  providing  logistical  support  for  the  armed 
forces. 


240 


National  Security 


The  Military  and  the  Party 

In  1990  more  than  100,000  YPA  soldiers,  airmen,  and  sailors 
were  members  of  the  LCY  and  formed  party  cells  in  the  military. 
Because  party  membership  was  a  criterion  for  officer  status,  vir- 
tually all  officers  were  LCY  members.  Despite  this,  LCY  control 
over  the  YPA  was  relatively  loose.  In  fact,  the  large  number  of 
military  personnel  in  the  LCY  made  the  YPA  a  powerful  constit- 
uency with  interests  claiming  full  party  attention. 

As  in  most  communist  states,  military  representation  in  the  party 
leadership  was  significant  in  the  1980s.  The  LCY  committee  in 
the  YPA  was  virtually  a  military  wing  of  the  party.  The  president 
of  the  committee,  always  a  general,  was  likely  eventually  to  be- 
come federal  secretary  for  national  defense.  The  committee  held 
party  conferences  to  elect  delegates  to  represent  the  YPA  at  LCY 
party  congresses.  YPA  party  conferences  were  similar  to  the  regional 
conferences  that  elected  republic  and  province  delegates  to  LCY 
party  congresses.  The  YPA  also  elected  its  president,  secretary, 
and  fifty  party  committee  members.  YPA  delegates  elected  to  the 
Thirteenth  Party  Congress  in  1986  included  primarily  generals  and 
other  officers,  but  some  noncommissioned  officers,  soldiers,  civilian 
YPA  employees,  and  higher  military  school  cadets  also  participated. 

The  LCY  committee  in  the  YPA  elected  fourteen  officers  to  serve 
on  the  LCY  Central  Committee  in  1986.  Other  officers  were  elected 
to  the  Central  Committee  as  representatives  of  the  party  in  the 
republics  and  provinces.  By  1986,  having  steadily  increased  since 
the  1970s,  the  percentage  of  military  leaders  in  the  Central  Com- 
mittee was  greater  than  the  percentage  of  military  personnel  in  the 
total  population.  In  Central  Committee  representation,  the  YPA 
allotment  almost  equaled  that  of  the  republics  and  did  equal  that 
of  the  provinces.  At  various  times,  the  federal  secretary  for  national 
defense  has  been  a  member  of  the  Presidium  of  the  LCY  Central 
Committee. 

Tito  controlled  the  YPA  by  exercising  his  tremendous  personal 
authority  and  purging  the  ranks  occasionally,  while  allowing  con- 
siderable professional  autonomy.  Many  YPA  leaders  were  loyal 
Tito  compatriots  from  the  Partisan  years,  although  their  numbers 
were  declining  noticeably  by  the  late  1980s.  Even  in  retirement, 
many  of  this  group  remained  politically  active  within  the  Federa- 
tion of  Associations  of  Veterans  of  the  National  Liberation  War 
(Savez  udruzenja  boraca  Narodno-oslobodilackog  rata — SUBNOR; 
see  Veterans'  Association,  ch.  4). 

Military  influence  in  the  political  system  increased  steadily  after 
the  early  1970s.  The  military  earned  its  influence  by  stabilizing 


241 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


STATE  PRESIDENCY 


COUNCIL  FOR 
NATIONAL  DEFENSE 


COUNCIL  FOR 
CIVIL  DEFENSE 

SECRETARIAT  FOR 
NATIONAL  DEFENSE 

COUNCIL  FOR 
TERRITORIAL  DEFENSE 

1 

GENERAL  STAFF  OF  THE 

YUGOSLAV  PEOPLE'S  ARMY 
(YPA) 

OPERATIONS  CONTROL 
POLITICAL  CONTROL 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Milan  N.  Vego,  "The  Yugoslav  Ground  Forces:  A 
Look  at  the  Past  and  the  Present,"  Military  Review,  60,  November  1980,  21;  and 
Marko  Milivojevic,  "The  Yugoslav  People's  Army,"  Armed  Forces,  6,  1987,  19. 


Figure  17.  Command  and  Control  of  the  Armed  Forces,  1990 

Yugoslavia  during  critical  periods  of  internal  tension.  In  1979  its 
high  political  profile  obligated  the  YPA  to  issue  a  formal  disavow- 
al of  any  intention  to  assume  power  after  Tito's  death.  In  the  1980s, 
the  constant  speculation  about  the  political  role  of  the  YPA  was 
due  less  to  the  political  ambitions  of  Yugoslav  generals  than  to  the 
many  social,  economic,  and  political  crises  afflicting  the  state.  On 
several  occasions,  military  leaders  felt  compelled  to  warn  that  the 
YPA  would  not  allow  disunity  to  cause  the  dissolution  of  the  Yu- 
goslav state. 

The  possibility  of  a  "Polish"  situation  was  openly  discussed;  this 
term  referred  to  General  Wojciech  Jaruzelski's  1981  imposition  of 
martial  law  and  communist  military  dictatorship  during  a  political 


242 


National  Security 


crisis  in  Poland.  Were  the  LCY  and  civilian  government  unable 
to  solve  long-standing  problems,  the  YPA  might  be  seen  as  the  last 
effective,  cohesive  force  in  Yugoslavia,  intervening  in  politics  to 
ensure  the  survival  of  the  state.  A  military  coup  against  the  LCY 
was  considered  unlikely,  however,  because  the  YPA  was  too  well 
integrated  into  the  LCY  and  the  process  of  government.  The  in- 
terests of  the  two  organizations  were  more  parallel  than  contradic- 
tory. The  YPA  was,  to  an  extent,  the  party  in  uniform.  If  it  acted 
to  rescue  party  rule,  it  would  actually  be  demonstrating  LCY  im- 
potence and  further  undermining  LCY  legitimacy. 

Armed  Services 

In  1990  the  YPA  consisted  of  the  army,  air  force,  and  navy.  The 
armed  services  were  organized  into  four  military  regions,  includ- 
ing the  Split  Naval  Region.  The  regions  were  further  divided  into 
districts  that  were  responsible  for  administrative  tasks  such  as  draft 
registration,  mobilization,  and  construction  and  maintenance  of 
military  facilities.  Of  the  YPA's  more  than  180,000  soldiers,  air- 
men, and  sailors,  nearly  100,000  were  conscripts. 

Army 

The  army  led  the  armed  services  in  personnel.  In  1990  the  army 
had  140,000  active-duty  soldiers  (including  90,000  conscripts)  and 
could  mobilize  nearly  450,000  trained  reservists  in  wartime.  The 
army  comprised  several  major  service  branches,  including  infan- 
try, armor,  artillery,  and  air  defense,  and  smaller  support  branches, 
such  as  the  signal,  engineering,  and  chemical  defense  corps. 

The  army  was  organized  into  three  military  regions  and  ten  army 
corps  headquarters.  The  military  regions  and  corps  headquarters 
were  responsible  for  forces  and  operations  in  three  strategic  areas: 
Slovenia  and  northern  Croatia;  eastern  Croatia,  Vojvodina,  and 
Serbia;  and  Kosovo  and  Macedonia.  In  1990  the  army  had  nearly 
completed  a  major  overhaul  of  its  basic  force  structure.  It  elimi- 
nated its  old  divisional  infantry  organization  and  established  the 
brigade  as  the  largest  operational  unit.  The  army  converted  ten 
of  twelve  infantry  divisions  into  twenty-nine  tank,  mechanized,  and 
mountain  infantry  brigades  with  integral  artillery,  air  defense,  and 
antitank  regiments.  One  airborne  brigade  was  also  organized  be- 
fore 1990.  The  shift  to  brigade-level  organization  provided  great- 
er operational  flexibility,  maneuverability,  and  tactical  initiative, 
and  it  reduced  the  possibility  that  large  army  units  would  be  de- 
stroyed in  set-piece  engagements  with  an  aggressor.  The  change 
created  many  senior  field  command  positions  that  would  develop 


243 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

relatively  young  and  talented  officers.  The  brigade  structure  also 
was  more  appropriate  at  a  time  of  declining  manpower. 

Tank  brigades  comprised  two  or  three  battalions.  They  operat- 
ed about  750  Soviet  T-54  and  T-55  tanks,  290  Yugoslav  M-84 
tanks,  and  some  United  States-made  M-47  tanks.  The  LCY  held 
about  550  Soviet  T-34  and  United  States-produced  M-4  tanks  in 
storage  as  reserves.  The  army's  tanks  were  in  many  respects  its 
most  obsolete  forces.  The  T-54/-55  was  a  frontline  model  during 
the  1960s.  The  M-47,  T-34,  and  M-4  were  tanks  of  World  War 
II  vintage  and  the  early  postwar  era.  Domestic  production  of  the 
M-84  (basically  a  version  of  the  Soviet  T-72  built  under  license 
in  Yugoslavia)  was  slowly  providing  the  army  with  a  late  1970s 
and  1980s  model  (see  Arms  Procurement,  this  ch.). 

Mechanized  infantry  brigades  lacked  sufficient  mechanization. 
In  1990  fewer  than  1,000  armored  combat  vehicles  and  personnel 
carriers  served  almost  50,000  troops  in  frontline  infantry  units.  Far 
fewer  than  one-half  of  all  brigades  were  substantially  mechanized. 
The  majority  of  mechanized  units  were  concentrated  in  eastern 
Croatia,  Vojvodina,  and  Serbia  along  what  would  be  the  main  axis 
of  a  Warsaw  Pact  invasion  of  Yugoslavia. 

The  army  had  over  400  M-980  armored  combat  vehicles  and 
300  M-60P  armored  personnel  carriers  produced  domestically.  The 
infantry  also  operated  more  than  200  Soviet-made  BTR-152, 
BTR-40,  and  BTR-50  armored  personnel  carriers,  which  had  been 
purchased  in  the  1960s  and  1970s.  It  had  100  M-3A1  half-tracked 
personnel  carriers  produced  by  the  United  States  and  a  small 
number  of  new  Romanian  TAB- 7 2  armored  personnel  carriers. 
Armored  reconnaissance  vehicles  included  a  few  older  Soviet 
BTR-40s,  newer  BRDM-2  models,  and  domestic  BOV  and  M-8 
vehicles. 

Artillery  regiments  were  well  equipped  with  Soviet,  United 
States,  and  domestic  systems.  Soviet  artillery  in  these  units  con- 
sisted of  approximately  1,000  towed  122mm  howitzers,  130mm 
guns,  152mm  gun/howitzers,  and  155mm  howitzers.  There  were 
about  700  older  United  States  105mm  and  155mm  towed  guns  and 
domestically  produced  models  such  as  the  M-65  in  the  artillery 
regiments.  Towed  pieces  were  very  important  for  operations  in  the 
country's  mountainous  terrain.  Artillery  units  operated  Soviet 
100mm  and  122mm  and  Yugoslav-produced  105mm  M-7  self- 
propelled  guns.  Those  units  had  over  6,000  82mm  and  120mm 
mortars,  including  a  self-propelled  82mm  mortar  mounted  on  an 
M-60PB  variant  of  the  standard  armored  personnel  carrier. 

Artillery  units  operated  several  battlefield  missile  systems,  inclu- 
ding 160  128mm  YMRL-32  and  M-63  multiple-rocket  launchers. 


244 


Soldiers  of  the  Yugoslav  People's  Army  infield  exercise 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Yugoslavia,  Washington 

The  arsenal  included  four  launchers  for  Soviet  FROG- 7  surface- 
to-surface  missiles.  First  fielded  in  1967,  the  unguided  FROG-7 
had  a  range  of  100  kilometers. 

Antitank  regiments  had  towed  antitank  guns,  recoilless  rifles, 
and  Soviet  antitank  guided  missiles.  Antitank  guns  included  75mm, 
90mm,  and  100mm  models.  They  were  Soviet  produced  with  the 
exception  of  the  90mm  M-63B2,  which  was  manufactured  domes- 
tically. The  recoilless  rifles  were  manufactured  domestically  and 
included  57mm,  82mm,  and  105mm  models.  Two  self-propelled 
82mm  recoilless  rifles  could  be  mounted  on  an  M-60PB  armored 
personnel  carrier.  Antitank  guided  missiles  were  the  Soviet  AT-1 
and  AT-3.  They  were  used  in  both  antitank  and  infantry  units, 
but  because  of  their  early  vintage,  effectiveness  against  advanced 
armor  was  uncertain.  The  four-wheeled  BOV-1  armored  recon- 
naissance vehicle  could  be  equipped  with  six  AT-3  launchers  to 
serve  as  a  highly  mobile  antitank  platform. 

Larger  army  units  had  considerable  tactical  air  defense  assets, 
designed  to  defend  major  troop  concentrations  against  enemy  air 
strikes.  The  ground  forces  had  four  surface-to-air  missile,  regiments 
and  eleven  antiaircraft  artillery  regiments.  The  former  operated 
Soviet  SA-6  mobile  medium-range  surface-to-air  missiles  as  well 


245 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

as  large  numbers  of  shorter-range  portable  SA-7  and  vehicle- 
mounted  SA-9  missiles.  Short-range  systems  also  were  employed 
in  infantry  units. 

Yugoslav  antiaircraft  artillery  regiments  operated  over  5,000 
guns.  Self-propelled  gun  systems  included  the  Soviet-made  57mm 
dual  ZSU-57-2  gun  systems  and  the  domestically  produced  triple 
20mm  BOV-3  and  dual  30mm  BOV-30.  Large  numbers  of  towed 
antiaircraft  guns  of  many  calibers  were  in  the  inventory.  Of  both 
domestic  and  foreign  origin,  they  included  pieces  purchased  from 
the  United  States,  Czechoslovakia,  Switzerland,  and  Sweden. 

In  general,  the  army's  major  deficiencies  were  its  lack  of  ade- 
quate firepower  and  mobility.  Infantry  units  were  insufficiently 
mechanized  to  maneuver  on  a  modern  battlefield,  and  tank  forces 
were  largely  outdated.  Using  equipment  from  the  Soviet  Union, 
the  United  States,  and  other  countries,  the  army  had  serious  logisti- 
cal problems,  including  irregular  ammunition  supply  and  main- 
tainance  of  many  nonstandard  weapons  systems.  The  army  lacked 
sufficient  fire  support  from  the  air  force,  although  by  1990  the  lat- 
ter was  acquiring  additional  ground  attack  aircraft  and  helicop- 
ters to  perform  this  mission.  The  army  emphasized  developing  or 
obtaining  more  effective  vehicle-mounted  and  portable  antitank 
guided  missiles  and  antiaircraft  missiles.  A  shortage  was  evident 
in  advanced  target  designation  systems,  including  infrared  sights 
and  laser  range  finders. 

Air  Force 

In  1990  the  air  force  included  more  than  32,000  personnel; 
because  of  the  professional  and  technical  requirements  of  the  service, 
fewer  than  4,000  were  conscripts.  The  air  force  operated  over  400 
combat  aircraft  and  200  armed  helicopters.  It  was  responsible  for 
transport,  reconnaissance,  and  rotary- wing  aircraft  as  well  as  the 
national  air  defense  system.  The  primary  air  force  missions  were 
to  contest  enemy  efforts  to  establish  air  superiority  over  Yugosla- 
via and  to  support  the  defensive  operations  of  the  army  and  navy. 
Most  aircraft  and  missiles  were  produced  domestically  or  supplied 
by  the  Soviet  Union. 

The  air  force  had  twelve  squadrons  of  domestically  produced 
ground  attack  fighters.  The  ground  attack  squadrons  provided  close 
air  support  to  army  operations.  They  were  equipped  with  165  new 
Orao-2,  Super  Galeb  and  Jastreb,  and  older  P-2  Kraguj  fighters. 
In  1990  gradual  procurement  of  more  Orao-2  fighters  was  facilitat- 
ing replacement  by  the  older  fighters  in  ground  attack  squadrons. 
Many  ground  attack  fighters  were  armed  with  AGM-65  Maver- 
ick air- to- surface  missiles  purchased  from  the  United  States.  Others 


246 


National  Security 


were  armed  with  Soviet  AS- 7  and  AS-9  missiles.  The  air  force 
also  had  seventy  armed  Mi-8  helicopter  gunships  to  provide 
added  mobility  and  fire  support  for  small  ground  units.  A  large 
number  of  reconnaissance  aircraft  were  available  to  support  army 
operations.  Four  squadrons  of  seventy  Galeb,  Jastreb,  and  Orao-1 
fighters  were  configured  for  reconnaissance  missions. 

The  air  force  provided  limited  transport  for  the  army.  It  had 
two  squadrons  with  over  thirty  Soviet-made  Yak-40,  An-12,  and 
An- 2 6  transport  aircraft.  It  had  seven  helicopter  transport  squad- 
rons with  Soviet  Mi-8  and  domestic  Partisan  helicopters.  In  1990 
the  air  force  transport  aircraft  and  helicopters  could  transport  only 
part  of  the  men  and  equipment  of  the  army's  airborne  brigade. 

The  air  force  had  a  limited  role  in  supporting  the  navy  in  coastal 
defense  operations.  It  operated  one  squadron  of  Soviet-made  Ka-25 
and  Ka-28  antisubmarine  warfare  helicopters  and  two  squadrons 
of  Mi-8  and  Partisan  transport  helicopters  in  support  of  navy 
missions. 

The  air  force  conducted  a  large  pilot  training  program  with  almost 
200  Galeb,  Jastreb,  and  UTVA-75/-76  aircraft.  The  propeller- 
driven  UTVA  trainers  had  underwing  pylons  capable  of  carrying 
light  weapons  loads.  A  new  UTVA  Lasta  trainer  was  under  de- 
velopment in  1990.  After  practicing  instrument  and  night  flying, 
gunnery,  bombing,  rocket  firing,  and  aerial  maneuvers  in  the  Lasta, 
student  pilots  progressed  to  the  Super  Galeb.  Twenty  Partisan 
helicopters  were  used  for  pilot  training. 

The  air  force  had  nine  squadrons  of  130  Soviet-made  MiG-21 
interceptors  for  air  defense.  First  produced  in  the  late  1950s,  the 
MiG-21  was  largely  obsolete  in  1990  and  represented  a  potential 
weakness  in  Yugoslavia's  air  defense.  The  MiG-21s  were  armed 
with  Soviet  AA-2  air-to-air  missiles  of  a  similar  vintage  and  some 
more  modern  AA-8  missiles  as  well  as  twin  30mm  cannons.  The 
air  force  acquired  one  squadron  of  new  Soviet  MiG-29  intercep- 
tors in  1989,  possibly  as  an  initial  step  toward  modernizing  its  in- 
terceptor squadrons.  One  Yugoslav  aircraft  manufacturer  also  was 
developing  a  new  domestic  multirole  fighter  to  replace  the  MiG-21 . 

The  air  force  controlled  additional  capable  ground-based  air 
defense  forces,  which  were  upgraded  in  the  mid-1970s.  They  in- 
cluded eight  battalions  of  Soviet  SA-2  surface-to-air  missiles;  six 
battalions  of  more  modern  SA-3  missiles;  fifteen  regiments  of  an- 
tiaircraft artillery;  and  a  network  of  early  warning  radars  and  com- 
mand, control,  and  communications  equipment  dispersed  at  sites 
around  the  country.  The  best-defended  sites  were  those  with  stra- 
tegic military  value,  including  government  army  headquarters, 


247 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

industrial  infrastructure,  major  population  centers,  ports,  and 
airports. 

Navy 

In  1990  the  navy  had  10,000  sailors  (4,400  conscripts),  includ- 
ing 2,300  in  twenty-five  coastal  artillery  batteries  and  900  marines 
in  one  light  naval  infantry  brigade.  This  was  essentially  a  coastal 
defense  force  with  the  mission  of  preventing  enemy  landings  along 
the  country's  rugged  1,500-kilometer  shoreline  or  coastal  islands 
and  of  contesting  an  enemy  blockade  or  control  of  the  strategic  Strait 
of  Otranto.  Its  capabilities  were  limited  by  a  lack  of  operational 
time  at  sea  and  infrequent  live-fire  exercises. 

Minor  surface  combatants  operated  by  the  navy  included  near- 
ly eighty  frigates,  corvettes,  submarines,  minesweepers,  and  mis- 
sile, torpedo,  and  patrol  boats  in  the  Adriatic  Fleet.  The  entire  coast 
of  Yugoslavia  was  part  of  the  naval  region  headquartered  at  Split. 
The  naval  region  was  divided  into  three  smaller  naval  districts  and 
a  riverine  flotilla  with  major  bases  located  at  Split,  Sibenik,  Pula, 
Ploce,  and  Kotor  on  the  Adriatic  and  Novi  Sad  on  the  Danube. 
The  fleet  was  organized  into  missile,  torpedo,  and  patrol  boat 
brigades,  a  submarine  division,  and  minesweeper  flotillas.  The 
naval  order  of  battle  included  four  frigates,  three  corvettes,  five 
patrol  submarines,  twenty-eight  minesweepers,  and  fifty-eight  mis- 
sile, torpedo,  and  patrol  boats.  One  antisubmarine  warfare  helicop- 
ter squadron  was  based  at  Divulje  on  the  Adriatic  for  coastal 
operations.  It  employed  Soviet  Ka-25,  Ka-28,  and  Mi-8  helicop- 
ters and  domestic  Partisan  helicopters.  Some  air  force  fighter  and 
reconnaissance  squadrons  supported  naval  operations. 

During  World  War  II,  the  Partisans  operated  many  small  boats 
in  raids  harassing  Italian  convoys  in  the  Adriatic  Sea.  After  the 
war,  the  navy  operated  numerous  German  and  Italian  submarines, 
destroyers,  minesweepers,  and  tank-landing  craft  captured  during 
the  war  or  received  as  war  reparations.  The  United  States  provid- 
ed eight  torpedo  boats  in  the  late  1940s,  but  most  of  those  units 
were  soon  obsolete.  The  navy  was  upgraded  in  the  1960s  when 
it  acquired  ten  Osa-I  class  missile  boats  and  four  Shershen-class 
torpedo  boats  from  the  Soviet  Union.  The  Soviet  Union  granted 
a  license  to  build  eleven  additional  Shershen  units  in  Yugoslav  ship- 
yards developed  for  this  purpose. 

In  1980  and  1982,  the  navy  took  delivery  of  two  Soviet  Koni- 
class  frigates.  In  1988  it  completed  two  additional  units  under 
license.  The  Koni  frigates  were  armed  with  four  Soviet  SS-N-2B 
surface-to-surface  missile  launchers,  twin  SA-N-4  surface-to-air 
missiles,  and  antisubmarine  rocket  launchers.  The  Yugoslav  navy 


248 


Officer  inspecting  paratrooper  equipment 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Yugoslavia,  Washington 

developed  its  own  submarine-building  capability  during  the  1960s. 
In  1990  the  main  combat  units  of  the  submarine  service  were  three 
Heroj-class  patrol  submarines  armed  with  533mm  torpedoes.  Two 
smaller  Sava-class  units  entered  service  in  the  late  1970s.  Two 
Sutjeska-class  submarines  had  been  relegated  mainly  to  training 
missions  by  1990.  At  that  time,  the  navy  had  apparently  shifted 
to  construction  of  versatile  midget  submarines.  Four  Una-class 
midgets  and  four  Mala-class  swimmer  delivery  vehicles  were  in  ser- 
vice in  the  late  1980s.  They  were  built  for  use  by  underwater  demo- 
lition teams  and  special  forces.  The  Una-class  boats  carried  five 
crewmen,  eight  combat  swimmers,  four  Mala  vehicles,  and  lim- 
pet mines.  The  Mala  vehicles  in  turn  carried  two  swimmers  and 
250  kilograms  of  mines. 

The  navy  operated  ten  Osa  I-class  and  six  Koncar-class  missile 
boats.  The  Osa  I  boats  were  armed  with  four  SS-N-2A  surface- 
to-surface  missile  launchers.  In  1990  domestic  Kobra  boats  were 
scheduled  to  begin  replacing  the  Osa  I  boats.  The  Kobra  was  to 
be  armed  with  four  SS-N-2C  launchers  or  eight  Swedish  RBS-15 
antiship  missile  launchers.  Armed  with  two  SS-N-2B  launchers, 
the  Koncar-class  boats  were  modeled  after  the  Swedish  Spica  class. 
The  navy  also  operated  fifteen  Shershen-class  torpedo  boats  and 
eleven  Yugoslav-built  units. 


249 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Patrol  boats  were  operated  primarily  for  antisubmarine  warfare. 
The  inventory  included  three  Mornar-class  corvettes  with  antisub- 
marine rocket  launchers  and  depth  charges.  The  Mornar  class  was 
based  on  a  French  design  from  the  mid-1950s.  Seventeen  Mirna 
inshore  patrol  boats  and  thirteen  older  Kraljevica  submarine  chasers 
also  were  available. 

The  navy's  mine  warfare  and  countermeasures  capabilities  were 
considered  adequate  in  1990.  It  operated  four  Vukov  Klanac-class 
coastal  minehunters  built  on  a  French  design,  four  British  Ham- 
class  inshore  minesweepers,  and  six  117-class  inshore  minesweep- 
ers built  in  domestic  shipyards.  Larger  numbers  of  older  and  less 
capable  minesweepers  were  mainly  used  in  riverine  operations. 
Other  older  units  were  used  as  dedicated  minelayers. 

The  navy  used  amphibious  landing  craft  in  support  of  army  oper- 
ations in  the  area  of  the  Danube,  Sava,  and  Drava  rivers.  They 
included  both  tank  and  assault  landing  craft.  In  1990  there  were 
four  501-class,  ten  211-class,  and  twenty-five  601-class  landing  craft 
in  service.  Most  of  them  were  also  capable  of  laying  mines  in  rivers 
and  coastal  areas. 

The  coastal  artillery  batteries  had  both  surface-to-surface  mis- 
siles and  guns.  They  operated  the  Soviet-designed  SS-C-3  and  a 
truck-mounted,  Yugoslav-produced  Brom  antiship  missile.  The  lat- 
ter was  essentially  a  Yugoslav  variant  of  the  Soviet  SS-N-2.  Coastal 
guns  included  over  400  88mm,  122mm,  130mm,  and  152mm  ar- 
tillery pieces  obtained  from  the  Soviet  Union,  the  United  States, 
Germany  (immediately  after  World  War  II),  and  Yugoslav 
manufacturers. 

Territorial  Defense  Forces 

The  Territorial  Defense  Forces  (TDF)  were  formed  in  1968  as 
an  integral  part  of  the  TND  doctrine  (see  Military  Doctrine,  this 
ch.).  TDF  units  were  a  vehicle  for  mobilizing  able-bodied  civilian 
males  and  females  to  participate  in  national  defense.  Between  1 
million  and  3  million  Yugoslavs  between  the  ages  of  fifteen  and 
sixty-five  would  fight  under  TDF  command  as  irregular  or  guer- 
rilla forces  in  wartime.  In  peacetime,  however,  about  860,000  TDF 
troops  were  involved  in  training  and  other  activities. 

As  originally  formed,  the  TDF  was  highly  decentralized  and  in- 
dependent. TDF  units  were  organized  and  funded  by  the  party 
and  governments  in  the  republics,  provinces,  and  communes.  The 
units  were  commanded  by  TDF  commanders,  but  they  were 
responsible  to  both  regional  LCY  leadership  and  the  nearest  YPA 
command.  The  formation  of  TDF  units  strained  the  budget,  per- 
sonnel, logistics,  and  training  resources  of  the  YPA  without  giving 


250 


Member  of  Territorial  Defense  Forces 
Courtesy  Embassy  of  Yugoslavia,  Washington 


251 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

it  direct  control  over  them.  Because  of  its  high  initial  priority,  the 
TDF  also  became  a  rival  of  sorts  and  detracted  from  the  status  and 
prestige  of  the  YPA. 

Tension  between  the  TDF  and  the  YPA  persisted  throughout 
the  1970s.  The  possibility  that  one  republic  might  form  its  TDF 
units  into  an  independent  army  capable  of  opposing  the  YPA 
brought  gradual  centralization  of  the  TDF.  The  process  culminated 
in  the  establishment  of  the  Council  for  Territorial  Defense  under 
the  control  of  the  secretary  for  national  defense  in  1980  (see  Govern- 
ment Organization  for  Defense,  this  ch.). 

Additional  changes  made  republic  and  province  TDF  com- 
manders directly  responsible  to  the  chief  of  the  YPA  General  Staff. 
Active-duty  and  reserve  YPA  officers  assumed  command  of  TDF 
units  throughout  the  country.  It  became  increasingly  apparent  that 
the  YPA  would  direct  TDF  units  in  combat,  except  in  enemy- 
controlled  areas  or  in  case  of  a  disruption  in  the  chain  of  command. 

Despite  losing  control  over  their  TDF  organizations,  the  republics 
and  provinces  continued  to  bear  the  financial  burden  of  support- 
ing them.  Those  jurisdictions  were  still  required  to  provide  infra- 
structure and  logistical  support  to  TDF  units  operating  on  their 
territory.  During  the  1980s,  the  cost  of  the  TDF  was  estimated  at 
approximately  1  percent  of  GNP  annually. 

The  TDF  concept  focused  on  small,  lightly  armed  infantry  units 
fighting  defensive  actions  on  familiar  local  terrain.  The  typical  unit 
was  a  company-sized  detachment  organized  by  more  than  2,000 
communes,  neighborhood  factories,  and  other  enterprises.  These 
units  would  fight  in  their  home  areas,  maintaining  local  defense 
production  essential  to  the  overall  war  effort.  The  TDF  also  in- 
cluded some  larger,  more  heavily  equipped  units  with  wider  oper- 
ational responsibilities.  TDF  battalions  and  regiments  operated  in 
regional  areas  with  older  artillery  and  antiaircraft  guns  and  some 
obsolete  armored  vehicles.  Using  their  mobility  and  tactical  initia- 
tive, these  units  would  attempt  to  alleviate  the  pressure  of  enemy 
armored  columns,  air  strikes,  and  air  assaults  on  smaller  TDF  units. 

In  coastal  regions,  TDF  units  had  naval  missions.  They  operat- 
ed some  obsolete  gunboats  in  support  of  navy  operations.  They 
were  organized  to  defend  strategic  coastal  areas  and  naval  facili- 
ties against  enemy  amphibious  landings  and  raids.  They  also  trained 
some  divers  for  use  in  sabotage  and  other  special  operations. 

The  TDF  was  helped  by  the  fact  that  most  of  its  male  citizen- 
soldiers  were  onetime  YPA  conscripts  who  had  completed  their  term 
of  compulsory  military  service.  But  TDF  recruitment  was  some- 
what limited  by  the  YPA  desire  to  include  as  many  recentiy  released 


252 


National  Security 


conscripts  as  possible  in  its  reserve.  Other  sources  of  TDF  man- 
power lacked  prior  military  service  and  required  extensive  basic 
training. 

Military  Manpower 

Articles  172  and  241  of  the  Constitution  of  1974  declare  mili- 
tary service  and  defense  of  the  country  to  be  the  supreme  duty  and 
honor  of  every  citizen.  In  1990  more  than  4  million  Yugoslavs  were 
in  the  YPA,  the  reserve,  the  TDF,  or  civil  defense. 

The  Yugoslav  people  generally  held  favorable  opinions  of  mili- 
tary personnel  because  of  the  identification  with  the  Partisans  who 
liberated  the  country  in  World  War  II.  However,  memories  of  Par- 
tisan activities  had  dimmed  noticeably  by  1990.  By  that  time,  the 
popularity  and  prestige  of  the  YPA  had  begun  to  diminish,  and 
military  careers  had  grown  less  attractive,  even  among  the  most 
patriotic  parts  of  society. 

The  Military  and  Society 

For  most  of  the  1980s,  the  YPA  was  considered  the  strongest 
unifying  institution  in  the  country.  The  military  played  a  fundamen- 
tal role  in  preventing  the  dissolution  of  the  federal  state  after  the 
death  of  Tito  and  the  dramatic  rise  of  ethnic  tensions  in  the  1980s. 
By  1990,  however,  serious  problems  had  developed  in  YPA  ranks 
and  in  its  relationship  to  society  as  a  whole. 

The  YPA  remained  very  popular  in  Serbia  in  the  1980s.  A  former 
secretary  for  national  defense  served  as  president  of  Serbia  in  1984, 
and  a  retired  chief  of  the  YPA  General  Staff  held  that  position  in 
1988.  The  predominantly  Serbian  leadership  of  the  YPA  made  high- 
profile  appeals  for  national  unity  and  public  order.  To  non-Serbs, 
however,  these  calls  seemed  to  be  demands  for  greater  centralism 
to  the  detriment  of  the  federal  system. 

The  YPA  faced  growing  criticism  and  antimilitary  attitudes  from 
civilians  of  other  nationalities.  Although  the  organization  remained 
unified,  divisive  tensions  paralleled  Yugoslavia's  growing  social 
problems.  Nationalist  movements  in  several  regions  of  the  coun- 
try posed  the  most  immediate  threat:  to  many  observers,  ethnic 
strife  complicated  the  YPA  missions  of  defending  against  external 
threats  and  suppressing  internal  ones.  Beginning  in  the  mid-1980s, 
the  civilian  press,  especially  in  Slovenia,  subjected  the  military  to 
unprecedented  criticism  and  scrutiny.  It  called  the  YPA  an  un- 
democratic institution  that  favored  Serbs  over  other  nationalities. 
Investigative  reports  described  the  use  of  military  labor  to  build 
expensive  villas  for  the  LCY  and  YPA  leadership.  The  press  ques- 
tioned the  use  of  military  force  in  situations  of  internal  unrest. 


253 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Slovene  reporters  revealed  Yugoslavia's  role  as  an  intermediary 
in  Swedish  arms  sales  to  Libya  and  Iraq  (see  Arms  Sales,  this  ch.). 
The  controversial  story  led  to  a  military  investigation  of  the  reporters 
and  an  effort  to  silence  public  criticism  of  the  YPA  (see  Courts, 
Detention,  and  Punishment,  this  ch.).  In  1988  a  former  secretary 
for  national  defense  asserted  that  hostile  elements  were  tarnishing 
the  military's  reputation  and  stirring  ethnic  unrest  among  mili- 
tary personnel.  Alleged  uprisings  plotted  by  ethnic  Albanians  in 
the  YPA  were  mentioned  prominently  in  his  speech.  He  claimed 
that  attacks  on  the  YPA  destabilized  the  country's  constitutional 
order  by  undermining  one  of  its  most  important  institutions. 

In  the  1980s,  physical  attacks  on  YPA  personnel  increased.  In 
1985  alone,  thirty  attacks  were  reported.  Nineteen  soldiers  were 
attacked  during  mass  demonstrations  protesting  the  arrests  of  the 
journalists  who  had  publicized  the  arms  deal  with  Libya  and  Iraq. 
While  asserting  that  most  attacks  were  motivated  by  nationalists 
and  separatists,  the  military  did  not  reveal  that  the  majority  of  in- 
cidents involved  recent,  non-Serbian  YPA  conscripts.  For  exam- 
ple, in  1987  an  ethnic  Albanian  conscript  murdered  four  soldiers 
in  a  federal  army  garrison  in  Serbia  in  what  may  have  been  an 
ethnically  motivated  incident. 

As  in  all  Yugoslav  institutions,  the  delicacy  of  the  ethnic  balance 
in  the  YPA  had  a  serious  impact  on  the  military's  effectiveness. 
Article  242  of  the  Constitution  requires  that  the  senior  YPA  com- 
mand and  officer  corps  reflect  proportional  representation  of  all 
nations  and  nationalities.  However,  the  proportion  of  Serbs  in  the 
YPA  was  higher  than  that  in  the  total  population.  In  1983  Serbs 
made  up  more  than  57  percent  of  the  YPA  officer  corps.  And  an 
even  higher  percentage  of  Serbs  reportedly  occupied  the  high  com- 
mand positions.  Virtually  every  former  secretary  for  national 
defense  or  chief  of  the  YPA  General  Staff  was  a  Serb.  Among  the 
other  nationalities,  Montenegrins  had  a  strong  military  tradition 
and  close  ties  to  Serbia.  They  made  up  over  10  percent  of  the  offi- 
cer corps  but  only  3  percent  of  the  total  population.  Croats  and 
Slovenes  were  the  most  seriously  underrepresented  nationalities 
in  the  YPA  officer  corps.  They  made  up  only  15  and  5  percent, 
respectively,  of  all  officers  and  20  and  8  percent,  respectively,  of 
the  civilian  population.  Croats  met  some  discrimination  in  the  YPA 
because  of  lingering  doubts  about  their  loyalty  to  the  Yugoslav 
state.  Muslims,  Albanians,  Macedonians,  and  Hungarians  con- 
stituted a  small  fraction  of  the  officer  corps.  Serbian  officers  and  non- 
commissioned officers  commanded  YPA  forces  that  included  mostiy 
non- Serbian  soldiers.  Serbian  officers  tended  to  have  a  strong 


254 


Military  Museum  at  Kalemegdan,  Belgrade 


255 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

all- Yugoslav  outlook,  whereas  the  non- Serbian  conscripts  they  com- 
manded brought  with  them  a  strong  bias  toward  their  own  region. 
Nationalism  was  particularly  intense  among  the  increasing  num- 
ber of  ethnic  Albanian  conscripts  from  Kosovo. 

Every  YPA  unit  included  soldiers  of  each  nationality.  With  the 
exception  of  the  Serbs,  conscripts  usually  were  not  trained  or  sta- 
tioned in  their  home  republics  or  provinces.  This  practice  ensured 
troop  loyalty  during  internal  security  actions  by  the  army.  For  ex- 
ample, Macedonian  soldiers  would  likely  have  fewer  reservations 
about  using  force  to  restore  order  among  the  population  of  Koso- 
vo than  against  their  fellow  Macedonians. 

Because  the  YPA  was  assigned  the  role  of  maintaining  the  fed- 
eral Yugoslav  state,  nationalist  friction  among  members  of  the 
armed  forces  was  an  especially  important  problem.  By  1990  this 
situation  raised  serious  questions  as  to  whether  the  YPA  could  con- 
tain ethnic  tension  in  its  own  ranks,  much  less  the  entire  country. 
As  in  other  facets  of  Yugoslav  life,  Tito's  leadership  had  inspired 
cooperation  toward  unified  military  achievement;  following  his 
death,  fundamental  ethnic  hostilities  began  to  surface.  Doubts  also 
arose  about  the  dependability  of  troops  from  certain  nationalities 
in  defending  Yugoslavia  against  external  attack.  In  1990  such  doubts 
fell  especially  on  the  Croats,  ethnic  Albanians,  and  Slovenes  be- 
cause of  political  and  economic  conditions  that  had  emerged  in  their 
regions  in  the  1980s  (see  Regional  Political  Issues,  ch.  4). 

A  series  of  Croatian  demands  for  military  autonomy  brought 
forceful  suppression  of  the  Croatian  separatist  movement  by  Serb- 
dominated  YPA  forces  in  1971  and  1972.  The  Croats  sought 
permission  to  perform  compulsory  YPA  service  in  their  home 
republic,  instead  of  automatically  being  assigned  elsewhere,  and 
some  even  demanded  formation  of  a  separate  army  in  their  republic. 
The  latter  demand,  with  its  implications  for  Croatian  independence, 
prompted  YPA  intervention  to  keep  the  republic  in  the  federal  state. 
This  crisis  demonstrated  the  extent  of  the  ethnic  fault  line  in  the 
YPA.  In  the  decades  following  the  massive  Croatian  collaboration 
with  the  Nazis  in  World  War  II,  Croatian  officers  and  soldiers  had 
largely  restored  the  group's  reputation  for  military  reliability.  But 
the  separatist  crisis  of  1971-72  resuscitated  doubts  about  Croa- 
tian loyalty.  In  the  aftermath  of  the  crisis,  many  Croatian  officers 
who  either  actively  or  tacitly  supported  Croat  nationalists  were 
purged  from  the  YPA;  this  purge  heightened  Croatian  hostility 
toward  the  national  military  establishment. 

In  1981  similar  tensions  existed  in  Kosovo.  Ethnic  Albanians  there 
complained  that  YPA  forces  used  excessive  brutality  in  suppress- 
ing the  massive  nationalist  uprisings  that  year.  Periodic  disturbances 


256 


National  Security 


lasted  throughout  the  1980s  (see  Kosovo,  ch.  4).  Setting  an  ominous 
precedent  for  the  future,  the  residents  of  Kosovo  actively  resisted 
YPA  intervention  and  the  semipermanent  occupation  of  their 
province  by  YPA  detachments.  In  1987  the  YPA  held  large-scale 
maneuvers  in  Slovenia.  Because  the  Slovenes  had  also  made  seri- 
ous demands  for  political  and  economic  autonomy  in  the  1980s, 
those  maneuvers  seemed  a  possible  prelude  to  YPA  intervention 
in  that  republic.  Some  observers  feared  that,  under  the  weight  of 
nationalism,  the  YPA  might  eventually  degenerate  into  rival  armed 
ethnic  militias  fighting  a  civil  war. 

Recruitment  and  Service  Obligations 

Conscription  was  the  principal  source  of  soldiers  in  Yugoslavia. 
All  male  citizens  were  subject  to  conscription,  regardless  of  ethnic 
group.  The  ethnic  breakdown  of  YPA  conscripts  closely  approxi- 
mated the  ethnic  composition  of  the  population  as  a  whole.  By  law, 
twelve  months  of  military  service  was  compulsory.  Young  men 
registered  for  conscription  on  their  seventeenth  birthday.  Usually 
inducted  in  the  spring  or  fall  after  their  nineteenth  birthday,  young 
men  remained  eligible  for  the  draft  until  age  thirty.  In  1990  about 
2.8  million  males  in  this  age-group  were  fit  for  military  service, 
out  of  an  estimated  national  population  of  23.5  million.  Within 
this  group,  about  180,000  reached  the  normal  induction  age  of 
nineteen  every  year.  Between  60  and  70  percent  of  the  180,000 
were  drafted  in  their  first  year  of  eligibility.  By  law  men  between 
the  ages  of  eighteen  and  fifty-five  could  be  drafted  in  the  event  of 
war  or  imminent  threat  of  war.  About  5  million  males  were  eligi- 
ble for  service  under  this  category. 

Treatment  of  conscientious  objectors  was  harsh,  and  no  form 
of  alternative  service  was  available  for  those  who  refused.  Article 
214  of  the  federal  criminal  code  provided  for  imprisonment  for  one 
to  ten  years  for  avoiding  military  service.  In  time  of  war  or  im- 
mediate danger  of  war,  the  penalty  for  refusing  to  serve  ranged 
from  five  years  in  prison  to  capital  punishment. 

Even  after  the  reduction  in  the  size  of  the  YPA  in  the  late  1980s, 
the  ratio  of  soldiers  to  civilians  remained  high.  By  the  late  1980s, 
a  new  military  obligation  law  had  shortened  the  term  of  conscrip- 
tion from  fifteen  to  twelve  months.  Military  policy  makers  did  not 
reduce  the  term  of  service  willingly,  but  demographic  factors  had 
left  no  alternative. 

Young  males  working  abroad  reduced  the  number  of  potential 
conscripts  for  the  YPA,  although  this  problem  was  less  acute  in 
the  1980s  than  in  the  1970s.  A  limited  number  of  exemptions  were 
based  on  physical  disability  or  family  hardship.  Students  enrolled 


257 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

in  or  preparing  to  enter  a  university  program  also  received  defer- 
ments. University  graduates  were  unlikely  to  serve  a  full  year  in 
the  military.  Many  fulfilled  their  service  requirement  by  receiv- 
ing reserve  officer  commissions  upon  graduation  from  a  universi- 
ty. Yugoslav  sources  reported  that  20,000  reserve  officers  were 
commissioned  annually  through  the  TDN  and  university  training 
programs. 

Although  not  ordinarily  subject  to  conscription,  women  served 
in  the  military  in  several  capacities.  Beginning  in  1983,  women 
were  allowed  to  volunteer  for  noncombat  duty  as  communications, 
medical,  and  clerical  personnel.  They  also  served  in  the  reserves 
and  could  be  drafted  into  the  YPA  during  war  or  imminent  threat 
of  war,  upon  a  special  order  of  the  secretary  for  national  defense. 
A  large  percentage  of  TDF  personnel  were  women. 

Between  1987  and  1990,  financial  and  demographic  factors 
gradually  reduced  the  number  of  YPA  personnel  from  266,000  to 
180,000.  The  economic  rationale  was  apparent:  in  a  time  of  ex- 
treme national  economic  crisis  and  lessening  international  tension, 
the  military  was  a  natural  target  for  budget  cutting.  At  the  same 
time,  by  1990  Yugoslavia's  population  growth  was  relatively  slow 
at  0.6  percent  annually.  Because  the  ethnic  Albanians  of  Kosovo 
accounted  for  most  of  this  small  increase,  maintaining  force  strength 
in  the  YPA  would  mean  inducting  higher  percentages  of  this  poten- 
tially disruptive  segment  of  the  population — a  course  not  favored 
by  Yugoslav  military  policy  makers  in  the  late  1980s. 

Noncommissioned  officers  (NCOs)  were  generally  selected  from 
two  sources.  Commanders  could  recommend  that  soldiers  attend 
an  NCO  school  upon  completing  basic  training.  Other  qualified 
youths  could  apply  to  an  NCO  school  directly  from  civilian  life. 
NCO  candidates  graduated  with  the  rank  of  sergeant.  They  signed 
up  for  three-  to  nine-year  tours  of  duty. 

Commissioned  officers  were  trained  primarily  in  higher  military 
schools  run  by  the  three  service  branches  (see  Military  Training 
and  Education,  this  ch.).  Particularly  well-qualified  NCOs  who 
passed  the  officer  examination  could  also  receive  commissions. 
Civilians  with  technical  specialties  such  as  engineering  or  medi- 
cine could  be  commissioned  directly  from  civilian  life. 

Retirement  in  the  YPA  was  mandatory  after  forty  years  of  serv- 
ice or  at  age  sixty,  except  for  those  in  the  general  officer  ranks. 
Service  in  the  reserves  began  on  completion  of  active  duty.  Con- 
scripts and  NCOs  were  obligated  until  age  fifty-five,  and  warrant 
officers  and  commissioned  officers  were  obligated  until  age  sixty. 
Women  served  in  the  reserves  until  age  fifty.  NCOs  could  enter 
the  reserves  as  junior  (second)  lieutenants  after  completing  a  reserve 


258 


National  Security 


officer  course.  During  war  or  imminent  threat  of  war,  the  secre- 
tary for  national  defense  could  extend  reserve  service  obligations. 
Promotion  and  other  advancement  generally  came  more  slowly  in 
the  reserves  than  in  the  active  service. 

Organized  civil  defense  was  another  form  of  citizen  participa- 
tion within  the  national  defense  establishment.  Beginning  in  the 
late  1960s,  the  emphasis  on  the  TDF  and  local  defense  drained  per- 
sonnel from  the  extensive  civil  defense  and  urban  evacuation  pro- 
gram already  in  existence.  Nonetheless,  in  1989  civil  defense  units 
included  about  2  million  adults  not  included  in  the  YPA,  its  reserve, 
or  the  TDF.  The  Council  for  Civil  Defense  was  a  joint  military 
and  civilian  body  within  the  Secretariat  for  National  Defense.  It 
brought  representatives  of  the  secretary  for  national  defense  together 
with  military  and  government  officials  from  each  republic  or 
province.  The  former  provided  assistance  and  advice  to  the  latter 
as  they  formed  civil  defense  organizations  at  every  level  of  govern- 
ment in  the  republic  or  province. 

Civil  defense  originally  was  directed  at  planning  for  the  mass 
evacuation  of  large  cities  and  defense  against  atomic,  biological, 
or  chemical  (ABC)  attack.  It  later  acquired  other  major  wartime 
reconstruction  and  reconstitution  responsibilities,  such  as  fire  fight- 
ing, provision  of  public  health,  sanitation,  emergency  shelters, 
evacuation,  and  civil  engineering.  Civil  defense  units  also  were  in- 
volved in  damage  recovery  from  natural  or  man-made  disasters 
and  other  national  emergency  situations. 

Military  Training  and  Education 

In  1990  about  one-half  of  all  conscripts  came  from  rural  back- 
grounds. They  tended  to  adapt  well  to  the  rigors  of  military  life. 
Many  conscripts  lacked  significant  technical  training  or  mechani- 
cal experience  prior  to  entering  military  service.  This  factor,  com- 
bined with  a  relatively  short  time  of  service,  impeded  training 
beyond  basic  military  skills.  Article  243  of  the  1974  Constitution 
guaranteed  the  equality  of  all  national  languages  in  the  armed 
forces.  However,  that  article  also  stated  that  a  single,  unspecified 
language  could  be  used  for  military  training  and  command.  In  prac- 
tice, Serbo-Croatian  was  the  only  language  used  in  the  armed  forces. 

Conscription  was  instituted  at  the  time  of  maximum  Soviet  threat 
in  1948.  Many  seventeen-year-olds  received  premilitary  training 
prior  to  induction.  This  training  was  intended  to  give  youths  some 
basic  military  knowledge  so  that  they  could  enter  the  YPA  pre- 
pared to  fight.  In  1990  reserve  NCOs  and  officers  still  conducted 
regular  premilitary  drills  in  intermediate  schools. 


259 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Basic  YPA  training  was  conducted  in  special  training  units.  Based 
on  the  TND  doctrine,  training  covered  both  conventional  military 
operations  and  unconventional  guerrilla  warfare  tactics  developed 
by  the  wartime  Partisans.  Basic  training  included  twenty  weeks 
of  individual  physical  conditioning,  military  drill  and  discipline, 
weapons  familiarization  and  range  firing,  political  indoctrination, 
and  squad  and  platoon  tactical  exercises.  Soldiers  participated  in 
more  advanced  training  in  the  units  to  which  they  were  perma- 
nently assigned  at  the  end  of  basic  training.  They  were  involved 
in  larger  unit  maneuvers  and  exercises  up  to  the  brigade  level.  Some 
troops  received  specialist  training  in  their  permanent  units,  while 
others  were  sent  to  technical  schools. 

Economic  stringency  limited  expenditures  on  realistic  live-fire 
exercises,  large-scale  maneuvers,  and  extensive  education.  The  YPA 
also  was  required  to  supply  conscript  labor  for  many  large-scale 
civilian  construction  projects.  YPA  units  and  military  engineers 
worked  on  roads,  bridges,  railroads,  tunnels,  coal  mines,  and  water 
supply  systems.  These  activities  detracted  from  conventional  mili- 
tary training  time. 

Officer  Education 

Several  higher  military  schools  served  as  the  main  training  source 
for  officers  of  the  various  service  branches.  Secondary-school  stu- 
dents and  a  certain  number  of  qualified  active-duty  NCOs  could 
apply  for  competitive  admission  to  those  institutions.  Applicants 
were  required  to  have  good  "moral-political"  qualities,  a  term 
generally  interpreted  to  mean  membership  in  the  Youth  League 
of  Yugoslavia  (the  official  youth  organization  sponsored  by  the 
LCY).  By  1990,  however,  Yugoslav  youth  showed  diminished  en- 
thusiasm both  for  party  activity  and  for  a  military  career;  applica- 
tions to  higher  military  schools  dropped  accordingly. 

Cadets  in  the  military  schools  normally  followed  a  three-  to  five- 
year  curriculum  designed  for  line  officers  or  for  military  engineers. 
Each  combat  arm  and  technical  or  administrative  branch  of  the 
YPA  had  at  least  one  higher  military  school.  Once  commissioned 
into  active  duty,  graduates  were  required  to  remain  in  service  for 
six  to  ten  years.  Military  pilots  had  a  fifteen-year  obligation.  After 
being  assigned  to  a  permanent  unit,  young  officers  learned  most 
of  their  basic  duties  on  the  job.  After  several  years  of  active  ser- 
vice, they  were  selected  for  specialist  training.  Some  commissioned 
officers  in  technical  fields  such  as  communications  and  aviation 
maintenance  were  sent  directly  to  advanced  training  programs.  Out- 
standing senior  captains,  majors,  and  lieutenant  colonels  were  chos- 
en to  attend  a  higher  military  academy  for  two  years  of  advanced 


260 


National  Security 


study  in  tactics  and  operations.  Selected  colonels  attended  a  one- 
year  command- and- staff  program.  Naval  officers  below  rear  ad- 
miral attended  similar  courses  at  the  Higher  Naval  Academy  in 
Split.  In  1990  some  Yugoslav  officers  were  selected  to  attend  pres- 
tigious Soviet  military  academies,  which  were  similar  to  command- 
and-staff  or  war  colleges  in  the  United  States. 

Reserve  Training 

Reserve  training  was  limited  by  law.  Reservists  were  eligible  for 
periodic  temporary  call-up  to  active  duty  for  training.  But  reserve 
soldiers  were  not  required  to  train  more  than  two  months  in  any 
year  or  more  than  six  months  total  during  their  entire  reserve  ob- 
ligation. Officers  were  not  required  to  train  more  than  twelve 
months  during  their  obligation.  All  reservists  remained  subject  to 
periodic  training  until  the  last  five  years  of  their  obligation.  They 
were  compensated  for  wages  forfeited  during  temporary  active  duty. 
Failure  to  respond  to  a  call-up  without  a  proper  waiver  was  a  crimi- 
nal offense  prosecuted  in  military  courts.  Reservists  could  be  ar- 
rested and  tried  for  crimes  or  breaches  of  military  discipline  while 
in  an  active-duty  status. 

Military  Life 

Yugoslavia's  socialist  self-management  system  was  defended  by 
the  one  institution  in  the  country  that  did  not  practice  self- 
management  (see  Socialist  Self-Management,  ch.  3).  It  was  believed 
that  the  independence  implicit  in  self-management  was  contradic- 
tory to  the  essential  military  principles  of  command,  subordina- 
tion, and  discipline. 

Soldiers  received  free  military  housing,  meals,  and  health  care, 
plus  a  small  monthly  payment  for  personal  expenses.  They  spent 
a  considerable  amount  of  time  producing  their  own  food.  Larger 
military  units  raised  and  slaughtered  livestock  and  grew  various 
staple  crops.  The  stipulated  average  workweek  of  a  YPA  soldier 
was  forty-two  hours;  however,  training  exercises  and  maneuvers 
could  extend  that  time.  Soldiers  were  entitled  to  fifteen  to  twenty- 
one  days  of  regular  leave  during  the  active-duty  period.  Some 
received  extra  leave  privileges  for  good  conduct.  Overall,  the  stan- 
dard of  living  of  the  average  soldier  was  below  that  of  his  civilian 
counterpart.  This  was  not  a  serious  concern,  however,  because  mili- 
tary service  was  both  mandatory  and  relatively  brief. 

Although  they  lacked  the  privileges  of  self-management,  sol- 
diers had  a  special  right  to  complain  to  their  immediate  superiors 
about  unsatisfactory  working  and  living  conditions.  They  could  ap- 
peal an  unfavorable  decision  to  a  higher  officer  within  thirty  days. 


261 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Military  law  stipulated  that  regular  meetings  of  military  units  and 
facilities  would  discuss  housing,  health  care,  and  other  conditions 
of  military  life.  Like  other  citizens,  soldiers  voted  for  delegates  to 
serve  in  commune,  republic  or  province,  and  federal  assemblies. 
These  delegates  represented  their  service  post  and  not  their  home 
region. 

The  majority  of  soldiers  came  directly  to  the  service  from  school, 
but  if  they  were  employed  prior  to  conscription,  they  had  the  right 
to  return  to  their  former  jobs.  Military  service  brought  with  it  a 
fairly  generous  disability  allowance  as  well  as  death  benefits  to  a 
soldier's  family. 

Unlike  soldiers,  officers  received  sufficient  pay  and  allowances 
to  live  in  better  circumstances  than  their  civilian  counterparts. 
Officer  pay  was  determined  by  a  combination  of  factors,  includ- 
ing rank,  length  of  service,  marital  status,  and  number  of  depen- 
dents. Officers  received  generous  allowances  for  travel,  family 
separation,  cost-of-living  differentials,  and  other  hardships.  Air 
crews  and  airborne  officers  received  hazardous  duty  pay,  and  med- 
ical doctors,  engineers,  and  technicians  with  special  skills  or  train- 
ing received  extra  incentive  pay  to  stay  in  the  service. 

Promotions  were  awarded  rapidly  and  equitably.  Active-duty 
performance  was  evaluated  as  either  favorable  or  unfavorable.  A 
favorable  rating  was  further  classified  as  adequate,  good,  outstand- 
ing, or  especially  outstanding.  Officers  were  rated  after  one  year 
of  service  and  every  three  years  thereafter  until  the  tenth  year  of 
service.  After  ten  years  of  service,  they  were  evaluated  every  four 
years. 

Officer  benefits  were  generous.  Leave  amounted  to  thirty  days 
every  year.  Officers  with  more  than  twenty-five  years  of  active- 
duty  service  or  older  than  age  fifty  received  an  additional  ten  days 
per  year.  In  most  cases,  retirement  pay  was  more  than  fifty  per- 
cent of  active-duty  pay.  Nevertheless,  inadequate  military  hous- 
ing was  a  common  problem  that  lowered  morale  among  officers. 

Ranks,  Insignia,  and  Uniforms 

Ranks  in  the  YPA  were  updated  by  the  Army  Law  of  1982.  Ac- 
cording to  that  law,  the  YPA  had  five  categories  of  ranks,  includ- 
ing general  officers,  senior  officers,  junior  officers,  NCOs,  and 
soldiers.  The  lowest  three  enlisted  ranks  wore  one,  two,  and  three 
red  chevrons,  respectively,  on  a  background  of  olive-green,  blue- 
gray,  or  black — corresponding,  respectively,  to  the  ground  forces, 
air  force,  or  navy.  In  the  army  and  air  force,  the  upper  enlisted 
ranks  wore  single  thin  yellow- gold  chevrons  with  one,  two,  three, 
and  four  yellow- gold  stars,  respectively.  The  two  classes  of  warrant 


262 


National  Security 


officer  wore  two  yellow- gold  chevrons  with  one  and  two  gold  stars, 
respectively. 

The  lowest  three  navy  ranks  were  indicated  by  one,  two,  and 
three  red  chevrons,  respectively.  Petty  officers  second  class  (roughly 
equivalent  to  petty  officers  first  class)  wore  one  red  chevron  and 
one  red  star.  The  upper  three  enlisted  ranks  wore  two,  three,  and 
four  yellow- gold  chevrons  and  one  yellow- gold  star,  respectively. 
Warrant  officers  wore  one  broad  and  one  narrow  yellow- gold 
chevron  and  one  yellow- gold  star,  chief  warrant  officers  (warrant 
officers  first  class)  wore  a  second  narrow  yellow- gold  chevron  and 
one  yellow- gold  star. 

Insignia  for  commissioned  officers  were  worn  on  shoulder  boards 
in  colors  corresponding  to  their  service  branch:  olive- green  for  the 
army,  blue- gray  for  the  air  force,  and  black  for  the  navy.  Shoul- 
der boards  were  piped  with  single  and  double  yellow-gold  braid, 
respectively,  for  junior  and  senior  officers  of  the  army  and  air  force. 
Shoulder  boards  of  navy  officers  were  not  piped.  General  officers 
of  all  three  services  wore  shoulder  boards  piped  with  twisted  gold 
cord. 

In  the  army  and  air  force,  the  four  junior  officer  ranks  wore  shoul- 
der boards  with  one,  two,  three,  and  four  small  yellow- gold  stars, 
respectively.  The  shoulder  boards  of  the  three  senior  officer  ranks 
bore  one,  two,  and  three  large  yellow- gold  stars,  respectively. 
General  officers  of  both  army  and  air  force  wore  a  crossed  sword 
and  cannon,  with  one,  two,  three,  and  four  gold  stars,  respective- 
ly. Tito  was  the  only  person  to  hold  the  rank  of  marshal,  and  the 
position  was  abolished  shortly  after  his  death.  Junior  and  senior 
naval  officers  wore  shoulder  boards  with  yellow-gold  stripes  and 
one  yellow-gold  star.  In  rank  sequence,  the  stripe  configurations 
of  junior  officers  were  one  broad,  one  broad  and  one  narrow,  two 
broad,  two  broad  and  one  narrow,  three  broad,  three  broad  and 
one  narrow,  and  four  broad  stripes. 

The  four  senior  naval  officer  ranks  wore  one  broad  band  and 
one,  two,  three,  and  four  broad  gold  stripes,  respectively,  each  with 
one  gold  star  on  the  shoulder  boards.  The  shoulder  boards  of  the 
naval  dress  uniform  were  like  those  of  the  army  and  air  force,  dis- 
tinguished by  an  anchor  representing  the  branch  (see  fig.  18). 

Soldiers  and  NCOs  were  issued  uniforms.  Soldiers  had  field  and 
service  uniforms,  while  NCOs  were  authorized  a  dress  uniform 
as  well.  Because  they  held  conscript  or  enlisted  ranks,  military  school 
cadets  wore  soldiers'  uniforms.  Soldiers'  winter  and  summer  uni- 
forms were  made  of  light  or  heavy  wool  and  cotton  in  olive-green, 
blue- gray,  and  black  for  army,  air  force,  and  navy,  respectively. 
Navy  conscripts  and  enlisted  men  also  had  summer  white  uniforms. 


263 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


264 


National  Security 


All  soldiers  wore  neckties  of  the  same  colors  except  in  summer, 
when  the  uniform  shirt  was  worn  with  an  open  collar. 

There  were  several  variations  on  the  basic  soldier's  uniform. 
Women's  uniforms  were  of  the  same  style  as  those  for  men,  ex- 
cept that  a  skirt  was  substituted  for  trousers.  Airborne  troops  wore 
an  olive-green  beret  instead  of  the  standard  garrison  or  service  cap. 
The  naval  infantry  wore  distinctive  blue  and  white  sleeve  patches 
and  black  berets  with  anchor  and  wreath  emblems.  Mountain  troops 
wore  distinctive  stiff  field  caps  with  semirigid  visors  and  earflaps. 
They  wore  loose  winter  shirts  under  which  additional  layers  could 
be  worn.  The  shirt  itself  had  a  lining  and  a  collar  that  could  be 
turned  up  to  cover  the  neck  and  chin.  The  trousers  worn  by  moun- 
tain troops  extended  just  below  the  knee,  with  a  strap  and  buckle 
closure.  Leather  leggings,  heavy  wool  socks,  and  foul- weather  capes 
also  were  worn  by  the  mountain  troops. 

Officers  had  to  procure  their  own  field,  service,  dress,  and  full 
dress  uniforms.  They  wore  insignia  on  the  lapels  of  the  field  uni- 
form shirts.  The  service  uniform  differed  only  in  some  details  from 
the  basic  dress  uniform.  The  shirt  buttons  of  the  dress  uniform  were 
yellow-gold  instead  of  the  service  color.  The  trousers,  jackets,  and 
overcoats  were  piped  along  the  seams  with  distinctive  service 
colors — red  for  army,  blue  for  air  force,  and  black  for  navy.  The 
dress  cap  visor  showed  the  same  piping  as  the  officer's  shoulder 
boards.  The  general  officer's  dress  cap  had  a  chin  strap  of  twisted 
gold  cord.  Other  officers  wore  plain  plastic  or  leather  chin  straps. 
Full  dress  uniforms  were  blue  and  were  worn  with  a  yellow- gold 
sash  belt  lined  with  the  appropriate  service  color.  Cap  emblems 
all  included  a  red  star  with  yellow- gold  rays,  given  distinctive  con- 
figurations according  to  branch.  Air  force  officers  had  the  red  star 
perched  on  the  wings  of  an  eagle  with  a  sword  clenched  in  its  tal- 
ons. Airborne  officers  had  the  red  star  resting  on  a  silver  parachute 
against  a  blue  background.  Cap  emblems  for  general  officers  showed 
the  same  gold  wreath  as  the  shoulder  boards. 

Defense  and  the  National  Economy 

From  1948  until  well  into  the  1980s,  Yugoslavia  devoted  a  con- 
siderable proportion  of  its  national  resources  to  defense.  By  all  in- 
dicators, the  economy  was  fairly  military  oriented,  considering  the 
country's  modest  overall  level  of  development.  Yugoslavia's  non- 
aligned  foreign  policy  made  a  high  military  budget  necessary  be- 
cause the  country  had  no  alliances  guaranteeing  military  assistance. 
But  the  Yugoslav  situation  resembled  that  of  other  communist 
states,  such  as  Cuba,  the  Democratic  People's  Republic  of  Korea 
(North  Korea),  and  Vietnam,  which  also  received  considerable 


265 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

amounts  of  Soviet  arms  and  military  equipment  without  being 
members  of  the  Warsaw  Pact. 

On  several  occasions  in  the  1980s,  the  YPA  leadership  stated 
that  the  country's  economic  crisis  and  diminished  resource  alloca- 
tions to  the  military  directly  affected  the  quality  of  YPA  weapons, 
equipment,  and  personnel,  thereby  weakening  YPA  ability  to  pro- 
vide a  reliable  defense  against  external  threats.  Yet  critics  of  the 
YPA  contended  that  the  military  still  spent  the  major  portion  of 
the  country's  resources  and  that  military  spending  was  a  major  fac- 
tor in  the  economic  crisis  that  persisted  and  worsened  in  Yugosla- 
via through  the  1980s. 

In  1990  much  of  the  YPA  weapons  inventory  was  obsolete.  In 
previous  years,  weapons  had  been  stockpiled  from  both  foreign  ac- 
quisition and  domestic  production.  But  for  long  periods,  Yugosla- 
via's nonaligned  status  precipitated  partial  embargos  by  both  East 
and  West.  NATO  and  the  Warsaw  Pact  were  cautious  about  sell- 
ing Yugoslavia  advanced  weapons  that  could  reach  hostile  third 
parties.  By  1990  Yugoslavia  had  strengthened  its  domestic  arms 
manufacturing,  and  that  year  it  claimed  that  80  percent  of  its  new 
weapons  came  from  that  source.  But  both  sources  remained 
problematic;  imports  were  expensive  and  politically  vulnerable,  yet 
domestically  produced  weapons  were  generally  of  lower  quality. 
Also,  importing  equipment  from  many  different  manufacturers 
complicated  standardization,  maintenance,  and  logistics.  Critics 
complained  that  arms  purchases  abroad  and  domestic  military 
production  were  too  expensive  and  were  incompatible  with  long- 
term  economic  stabilization.  The  military,  however,  argued  that 
arms  procurement  helped  with  the  acquisition  or  development  of 
technologies  of  value  in  the  production  of  civilian  goods. 

Military  Budget 

In  the  early  1980s,  the  military  budget  of  Yugoslavia  held  steady 
between  US$2  billion  and  US$2.5  billion,  despite  the  country's 
severe  economic  stringency.  The  expanded  internal  security  mis- 
sion of  the  YPA  was  probably  the  compelling  factor  in  higher 
defense  spending  in  the  mid-1980s  (see  Internal  Security,  this  ch.). 
Nevertheless,  the  Krajgher  Commission's  Long-Term  Economic 
Stabilization  Program  required  the  YPA  to  cut  expenditures  by 
5  percent  in  both  1986  and  1987.  The  1987  military  budget  was 
US$2.7  billion,  with  cuts  absorbed  largely  in  reduced  manpower 
(see  Recruitment  and  Service  Obligations,  this  ch.).  At  that  time, 
Yugoslav  defense  expenditures  dropped  below  those  of  every  non- 
Soviet  Warsaw  Pact  state  and  of  neighboring  NATO  countries  Italy 
and  Greece.  In  1988  the  military  budget  increased  to  US$2.8  billion 


266 


National  Security 


and  to  over  US$4.4  billion  in  1989.  Yet  these  increases  failed  to 
match  the  national  inflation  rate,  and  defense  spending  declined 
in  real  terms. 

In  postwar  Yugoslavia,  the  burden  of  the  military  budget  on  the 
national  economy  was  traditionally  a  heavy  one.  In  1952,  at  the 
height  of  spending  to  meet  the  Soviet  threat  to  Yugoslavia,  22  per- 
cent of  the  country's  GNP  was  dedicated  to  fielding  a  500,000-man 
regular  army.  That  figure  subsequently  decreased,  but  through- 
out the  Tito  years  it  remained  relatively  high  by  world  standards. 

The  military  budget  as  a  proportion  of  federal  government  ex- 
penditures also  reflected  the  high  priority  of  defense.  The  federal 
government  routinely  dedicated  50  percent  to  60  percent  of  its  an- 
nual outlay  to  defense.  In  the  1980s,  this  ratio  was  consistently  the 
highest  or  second  highest  in  the  world.  In  1987,  however,  spend- 
ing cuts  temporarily  dropped  the  defense  share  of  total  federal  ex- 
penditures to  just  under  30  percent.  In  Yugoslavia  this  measurement 
overstated  the  burden  of  military  spending  somewhat  because  many 
government  expenditures  were  made  at  the  republic,  province,  or 
commune  level,  rather  than  at  the  federal  government  level.  Even 
considering  that  factor,  however,  defense  remained  the  largest  com- 
ponent of  federal  government  spending. 

Arms  Procurement 

In  1990  Yugoslavia  remained  dependent  on  the  Soviet  Union 
for  most  of  its  heavy  armaments  and  complex  weapons  systems, 
including  tanks,  armored  vehicles,  antitank  and  antiaircraft  mis- 
siles, and  ships.  Until  the  late  1980s,  this  created  a  dangerous  sit- 
uation in  which  Yugoslavia's  principal  arms  supplier  was  also  the 
country's  greatest  apparent  external  threat.  Therefore,  in  1990  Yu- 
goslav arms  procurement  policy  aimed  to  expand  purchases  from 
the  other  Warsaw  Pact  states,  the  United  States,  and  neutral  Eu- 
ropean countries,  as  well  as  to  increase  domestic  production.  Despite 
significant  progress,  self-sufficiency  in  arms  supply  remained  elu- 
sive for  both  economic  and  technological  reasons.  Yugoslavia's 
domestic  arms  industry  remained  relatively  small,  and  in  1990  it 
faced  declining  export  markets. 

Arms  Imports 

Immediately  after  World  War  II,  Yugoslavia  received  a  substan- 
tial amount  of  Italian  military  equipment  as  war  reparations.  The 
Yugoslav  arms  industry  used  captured  German  and  Czechoslovak 
weapons  as  models  in  manufacturing  its  own  small  arms  and  in- 
fantry equipment.  The  United  States,  France,  and  Britain  also  sup- 
plied arms  after  the  war.  After  Yugoslavia  broke  with  the  Soviet 


267 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Union  in  1948,  Yugoslavia  depended  heavily  on  the  United  States 
for  military  assistance.  A  United  States  Military  Assistance  Advi- 
sory Group  (MAAG)  was  active  in  Yugoslavia  until  1961 ,  managing 
a  total  of  about  US$600  million  in  military  aid.  In  conjunction  with 
the  flow  of  United  States  weapons,  many  Yugoslav  officers  came 
to  the  United  States  for  training  during  that  period.  Yugoslavia 
received  World  War  II-vintage  equipment  and  some  more  up-to- 
date  systems,  including  M-4  Sherman  and  M-47  Patton  tanks, 
M-2  and  M-3  half-tracked  personnel  carriers,  artillery,  and  F-86 
Thunderflash  fighter-bombers.  Some  of  this  equipment  was  still 
in  service  or  held  in  reserve  in  1990.  After  the  Belgrade  Declara- 
tion of  1955  improved  bilateral  relations,  the  Soviet  Union  became 
Yugoslavia's  main  supplier  of  arms  and  equipment.  In  the  1960s, 
Yugoslavia  received  Soviet  T-34  and  T-54/-55  tanks,  first- 
generation  antitank  guided  missiles,  Osa-class  missile  boats,  and 
MiG-21  fighters.  In  the  1970s,  the  Soviet  Union  sold  Mi-4  and 
Mi-8  helicopters  and  SA-2  and  SA-6  surface-to-air  missiles.  Since 
1985  Yugoslavia  has  received  a  license  to  produce  a  domestic  ver- 
sion of  the  Soviet  T-72  tank  for  its  own  use  and  for  export.  In  the 
late  1980s,  Yugoslavia  was  one  of  only  a  few  countries  to  be  sold 
the  new  Soviet  MiG-29  fighter.  At  an  estimated  cost  of  US$20  mil- 
lion per  aircraft,  however,  the  MiG-29  was  considered  too  expen- 
sive for  Yugoslavia  to  purchase  more  than  a  few  as  models  for  its 
own  aircraft  industry. 

Purchases  from  the  Soviet  Union  had  the  advantage  of  sparing 
Yugoslavia  the  scarce  hard-currency  (see  Glossary)  reserves  required 
as  payment  by  Western  suppliers.  The  Soviet  Union  also  provid- 
ed generous  credit  and  repayment  terms.  Civilian  authorities  in 
Yugoslavia  voiced  serious  concerns  about  the  political  influence 
gained  by  the  Soviet  Union  from  such  favorable  terms.  Arms  sales 
and  frequent  contacts  had  the  potential  to  build  a  constituency 
favorable  to  the  Soviet  Union  in  the  YPA  and  its  leadership.  In 
any  event,  the  situation  in  1990  preserved  some  of  Yugoslavia's 
previous  dependency  on  good  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union. 

In  the  late  1980s,  economic  stringency  forced  postponement  of 
some  major  military  purchases  from  Western  countries.  Yugosla- 
via investigated  purchase  from  other  suppliers  of  mobile  missile 
systems  for  defense  against  armor,  aircraft,  and  ships.  Antitank, 
antiaircraft,  and  antiship  missiles  were  relatively  cheap  alternatives 
to  domestic  manufacture  of  more  tanks,  interceptors,  and  ships. 

When  possible,  Yugoslavia  sought  to  establish  licensed  domes- 
tic production  of  foreign  weapons  systems.  In  general,  Western 
countries  placed  more  restrictions  on  licensing  agreements  and 
offered  less  generous  terms  than  the  Soviet  Union  because  the 


268 


National  Security 


former  saw  such  deals  strictly  as  profit-making  transactions.  In  all 
cases,  Yugoslavia  refused  to  accept  political  conditions  on  the  use 
or  resale  of  imported  arms.  In  the  early  1980s,  negotiations  to  supply 
Yugoslavia  with  modern  United  States-manufactured  TOW  anti- 
tank guided  missiles  broke  down  after  the  revelation  that  Yugos- 
lavia had  violated  the  terms  of  a  prior  transfer  by  sending  M-47 
tanks  to  the  new  revolutionary  regime  in  Ethiopia  in  the  early  1980s. 

In  the  1970s  and  1980s,  Yugoslavia  expanded  significantly  its 
arms  cooperation  with  countries  outside  the  Soviet  and  United 
States  spheres.  In  cooperation  with  Swiss  firms,  Yugoslavia  pro- 
duced a  multiple-use  20mm  antiaircraft  cannon  and  incorporated 
the  imported  Snecma  engine  into  its  own  M-980  armored  combat 
vehicle.  The  Yugoslav  M-60P  armored  personnel  carrier  used  an 
Austrian  engine.  Cooperation  with  other  nonaligned  countries  was 
extensive.  With  India  and  Egypt,  Yugoslavia  traded  spare  parts 
for  Soviet  weapons  and  aircraft.  With  Swedish  assistance,  Yugo- 
slav engineers  developed  laser  range  finders  for  sale  to  Egypt  and 
for  domestic  installation  on  Soviet-made  tanks.  Yugoslavia  bought 
many  systems  from  two  Soviet  Warsaw  Pact  allies,  Czechoslovakia 
and  Poland.  The  Yugoslav  128mm  YMRL-32  multiple-rocket 
launcher,  with  thirty-two  tubes  and  automatic  reloader,  was  mod- 
eled after  Czechoslovak  and  Romanian  versions  of  the  Soviet 
BM-21.  Yugoslavia  purchased  MiG-21  fighters  made  under  Soviet 
license  in  Czechoslovakia;  Czechoslovak  M53/59  truck-mounted 
antiaircraft  guns;  and  T-55  tanks  and  An- 2  and  An- 28  transport 
aircraft  built  under  Soviet  license  in  Poland. 

According  to  the  United  States  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament 
Agency,  between  1967  and  1976  the  Soviet  Union  supplied  93  per- 
cent of  Yugoslavia's  arms  purchases,  Poland  and  France  supplied 
2  percent  each,  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Germa- 
ny) and  Czechoslovakia  supplied  1  percent  each,  and  the  United 
States  supplied  less  than  1  percent.  In  that  period,  arms  made  up 
5  to  6  percent  of  the  country's  total  imports.  The  situation  changed 
considerably  in  succeeding  years  as  the  Soviet  Union's  supply  role 
diminished.  Between  1983  and  1987,  Yugoslavia  bought  US$600 
million  in  arms  abroad.  The  Soviet  Union  supplied  75  percent  of 
this  amount  and  the  United  States  23  percent,  with  the  remaining  2 
percent  supplied  by  ten  other  countries.  In  1985  economic  stringency 
reduced  arms  imports  to  US$30  million,  less  than  0.25  percent  of 
total  imports.  By  1987  that  figure  had  rebounded  to  US$210  million. 

Domestic  Arms  Production 

Beginning  in  the  mid-1970s,  Yugoslavia  made  considerable  pro- 
gress in  replacing  imports  with  cheaper  domestically  manufactured 


269 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

military  equipment.  As  Yugoslav  military  equipment  approached 
the  quality  of  European  equipment,  international  sale  of  such 
products  became  a  potential  source  of  hard  currency  for  the  Yu- 
goslav economy  (see  Arms  Sales,  this  ch.).  By  1990  Yugoslav  in- 
dustry was  providing  about  80  percent  of  basic  military  equipment 
and  some  advanced  systems.  But  that  figure  included  mostly  in- 
fantry weapons,  antitank  systems,  armored  vehicles,  boats  and 
ships,  and  relatively  simple  components.  Although  the  objective 
was  to  keep  pace  with  the  best  armaments  in  NATO  and  Warsaw 
Pact  inventories,  this  goal  was  hindered  by  the  tremendous  finan- 
cial and  technological  obstacles  facing  all  of  Yugoslav  industry  in 
1990.  The  Yugoslav  arms  industry  upgraded  or  modernized  ex- 
isting systems  when  possible,  extended  the  service  life  or  improved 
the  effectiveness  of  major  weapons  systems,  and  shared  research 
and  development  breakthroughs  with  civilian  industry  to  maximize 
economic  impact.  Yugoslav  arms  industries  operated  somewhat 
differendy  from  other  economic  enterprises.  Article  281  of  the  Con- 
stitution empowered  the  federal  secretary  for  national  defense  to 
regulate  associated  labor  and  self-managed  organizations  involved 
in  defense  production  and  research.  A  1979  law  on  domestic  defense 
industries  consolidated  many  enterprises  producing  arms  and  other 
military  equipment.  It  also  provided  the  federal  secretary  for  na- 
tional defense  more  direct  control  over  the  activities  of  those  en- 
terprises. Domestic  defense  production  in  the  1970s  had  been 
hampered  by  the  relative  autonomy  of  many  highly  interdepen- 
dent industries.  As  many  as  240  loosely  associated  enterprises 
produced  necessary  parts  for  a  single  complex  weapons  system.  The 
1979  law  weakened  the  principle  of  self-management  in  defense 
production  enterprises,  citing  their  special  role  in  national  securi- 
ty. The  law  severely  circumscribed  the  right  of  employees  to  set 
prices  for  their  products.  This  provision  allayed  military  concerns 
about  the  inflation  and  escalating  arms  costs  caused  by  worker  wage 
demands.  Workers  continued  the  formal  process  of  setting  prices, 
but  only  under  strict  guidelines  issued  by  the  secretary  for  nation- 
al defense.  The  secretary  also  prepared  an  arms  import  program. 
Funds  from  the  defense  budget  had  to  be  allocated  if  foreign  ex- 
change earnings  from  arms  exports  did  not  match  the  cost  of  arms 
imports.  The  secretary  was  responsible  for  arranging  credit  or  pay- 
ment terms  with  foreign  governments  or  suppliers. 

The  army  was  the  first  priority  in  Yugoslavia's  arms  procure- 
ment plans.  The  most  urgent  requirements  were  replacement  of 
obsolete  armored  equipment  and  improvement  of  mobile  defense 
infantry  weapons,  including  antitank  and  antiaircraft  systems,  to 
compensate  for  infantry  manpower  cutbacks.  In  1990  Yugoslavia 


270 


National  Security 


also  was  developing  its  own  military  aircraft  and  helicopters.  Im- 
proved target  detection  and  designation  systems  were  sought. 

In  the  late  1970s,  the  Soviet  Union  granted  Yugoslavia  a  license 
to  build  the  T-72  tank.  The  Yugoslav  version,  designated  M-84, 
went  into  serial  production  in  the  late  1980s.  According  to  Yugo- 
slav sources,  the  M-84  had  a  computerized  fire  control  system, 
electronics,  and  a  laser  range  finder  comparable  to  those  of  ad- 
vanced NATO  and  Warsaw  Pact  models.  It  featured  protection 
against  armor-piercing  shells,  a  low  silhouette,  and  a  defensive 
alarm  system  to  warn  the  crew  when  the  vehicle  was  illuminated 
by  enemy  radar,  infrared,  or  laser  target  designators. 

By  contrast,  the  Yugoslav  M-980  armored  combat  vehicle  was 
an  entirely  domestic  design.  When  initially  fielded  in  1975,  it  was 
one  of  the  world's  most  advanced  models,  rated  on  a  par  with  the 
Soviet  BMP-1  or  French  AMX-10.  The  amphibious  M-980  car- 
ried an  eight-man  infantry  squad,  a  driver,  and  a  gunner.  It  was 
armed  with  Soviet  AT-3  antitank  guided  missiles,  a  20mm  can- 
non, and  a  7.92mm  machine  gun  and  was  powered  by  a  Snecma 
diesel  engine.  The  Yugoslav  BOV  was  a  particularly  versatile 
domestic  armored  reconnaissance  vehicle  configured  with  a  num- 
ber of  mounted  antitank  and  antiaircraft  weapons  systems. 

Yugoslavia  produced  its  first  fighter  aircraft  in  1950  and  followed 
it  with  many  trainers  and  experimental  aircraft  in  later  years.  In 
the  mid-1960s,  the  Galeb  and  Jastreb  fighters  were  the  first  domes- 
tically manufactured  jet  aircraft.  In  the  1970s,  Yugoslavia  produced 
the  Super  Galeb  light  attack  aircraft  and  began  to  work  jointiy  with 
Romania  to  develop  its  first  sophisticated  domestic  fighter/attack 
aircraft,  the  Orao.  A  single  Rolls  Royce  Mk  632  Viper  turbojet 
engine  powered  the  Super  Galeb,  which  carried  two  twin  23mm 
cannons,  57mm  and  128mm  rockets,  and  cluster  bombs.  Its  total 
ordnance  load  capability  was  2,000  kilograms.  The  Orao  incorpo- 
rated both  domestic  and  foreign  technology,  including  twin  Rolls 
Royce  Mk  633-41  Viper  turbojet  engines.  The  initial  prototype 
was  ready  in  1974,  and  serial  production  began  in  1980.  Perfor- 
mance of  the  Orao  was  very  similar  to  that  of  the  Alpha  jet  used 
by  NATO  forces. 

Although  it  represented  a  considerable  advance  for  Yugoslav  mili- 
tary aviation,  the  Orao  had  some  significant  shortcomings.  It  was 
limited  to  subsonic  performance,  carried  a  relatively  light  weapons 
load  of  2,500  kilograms,  lacked  air-to-air  missiles,  and  offered  a 
short  combat  radius  of  400  kilometers.  By  1990  fewer  than  100  had 
been  built,  and  plans  to  build  a  new  multirole  fighter  cast  doubt 
on  the  future  of  the  Orao  program. 


271 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

In  the  1980s,  the  Ivo  Lola  Ribar  Machine  Industry  of  Belgrade 
began  manufacturing  French  Aerospatiale  SA-342  Gazelle  helicop- 
ters under  license.  Called  the  Partisan,  this  was  the  first  domesti- 
cally produced  rotary- wing  aircraft.  It  could  carry  four  launchers 
for  AT-3  antitank  guided  missiles. 

In  1990  Yugoslavia  had  a  solid  technological  and  manufactur- 
ing base  for  producing  other  weapons  systems;  the  main  weak  points 
of  this  base  were  in  electronics  and  guidance  technologies.  Yugo- 
slavia cooperated  with  Sweden  to  produce  laser  range  finders  and 
gun  sights.  Its  arms  industries  used  Soviet,  Czechoslovak,  and  Unit- 
ed States  models  to  achieve  self-sufficiency  in  rifles,  machine  guns, 
light  antiarmor  rockets,  mortars,  and  artillery  pieces  and  to  pro- 
vide a  substantial  portion  of  boats  and  landing  craft  used  by  the 
YPA.  The  Soviet  Osa  class  served  as  a  design  model  for  Yugoslav 
missile  boats,  which  were  powered  by  British  turbine  engines  and 
armed  with  French- supplied  Exocet  antiship  missiles.  The  Yugoslav 
501 -class  landing  craft  was  a  versatile  platform  capable  of  transport- 
ing three  tanks  and  two  platoons  of  troops  or  two  eight-gun  artillery 
batteries.  It  also  could  serve  as  a  coastal  minelayer.  But  in  1990, 
Yugoslavia  still  relied  on  the  Soviet  Union  and  a  number  of  Italian, 
Spanish,  Swiss,  and  Swedish  arms  firms  for  weapons  and  electronics 
to  outfit  the  ships  and  boats  built  in  Yugoslav  shipyards. 

Domestic  production  of  antitank  systems  was  a  high  priority  be- 
cause such  systems  were  not  easily  available  elsewhere.  The  Soviet 
Union  was  reluctant  to  provide  Yugoslavia  its  more  advanced  an- 
titank guided  missiles,  which  might  be  used  later  against  its  own 
main  battle  tanks.  The  United  States  had  declined  to  sell  TOW 
missiles  because  Yugoslavia  had  failed  to  abide  by  the  terms  of  previ- 
ous arms  transfers. 

Foreign  Military  Relations 

Working  relationships  with  the  military  establishments  in  a  wide 
range  of  foreign  countries  were  an  important  facet  of  Yugoslavia's 
nonaligned  foreign  policy.  Maintenance  of  such  links  guaranteed 
flexibility  in  dealing  with  unforeseen  events  and  provided  maxi- 
mum access  to  advanced  foreign  military  technology.  However, 
by  1990  foreign  military  ties  had  become  a  major  source  of  domestic 
political  controversy. 

The  Yugoslav  military  had  a  long-standing  relationship  with  its 
Soviet  counterpart.  Between  1945  and  1948,  the  Soviet  military 
had  a  strong  formative  influence  on  the  new  YPA.  The  Soviet  model 
was  followed  in  organization,  training,  and  even  uniform  style.  The 
Soviet  Union  built  some  of  the  first  military  infrastructure,  including 


272 


National  Security 


airfields,  command  posts,  and  coastal  gun  emplacements,  for  the 
Tito  government.  Although  damaged  by  Yugoslavia's  1948  break 
with  the  Soviet  Union,  military  ties  were  renewed  quickly  after 
Soviet- Yugoslav  relations  were  normalized  in  1955.  Annual  bilateral 
exchanges  began  between  the  general  staffs  of  the  two  countries. 

Although  such  cooperation  gave  the  Soviet  Union  considerable 
influence  with  the  Yugoslav  military,  Yugoslavia  rebuffed  Soviet 
requests  for  formal  naval  base  access  and  airfield  landing  rights, 
offering  instead  case-by-case  consideration.  Landing  rights  were 
granted  Soviet  aircraft  during  the  1967  and  1973  Middle  East  wars. 
Yugoslavia  established  a  regular  contract  to  maintain  and  repair 
Soviet  submarines  and  submarine  tenders  in  its  shipyard  at  Ko- 
tor.  Military  ties  to  other  countries,  including  the  United  States, 
served  to  balance  these  accommodations  to  the  Soviet  Union.  The 
secretary  for  national  defense  last  made  an  official  visit  to  Washing- 
ton in  1984. 

Warship  Visits 

Warships  from  the  Soviet  Union  and  the  United  States  made 
occasional  port  calls  in  Yugoslavia,  but  such  visits  sometimes 
aroused  controversy.  After  an  incident  involving  the  United  States 
aircraft  carrier  Saratoga  in  1987,  Yugoslavia  amended  its  federal 
law  to  prohibit  foreign  warships  from  using  nuclear  power  or  car- 
rying nuclear  weapons  from  entering  its  territorial  waters.  The  re- 
vised law  also  placed  new  restrictions  on  foreign  port  calls,  limiting 
foreign  countries  to  four  formal  visits  of  ten  days  or  fewer  each 
year.  No  more  than  three  combat  and  two  auxiliary  ships  of  the 
same  nation  were  allowed  to  enter  Yugoslav  waters  during  a  six- 
month  period.  Maximum  displacements  for  visiting  ships  were  also 
set  at  10,000  tons  for  combatants  and  4,000  tons  for  submarines 
and  auxiliary  vessels.  The  carefully  worded  new  law  aimed  visita- 
tion limits  at  the  Mediterranean  Squadron  of  the  Soviet  navy  and 
displacement  limits  at  the  United  States  Navy's  Sixth  Fleet. 

Arms  Sales 

In  1990  Yugoslavia  was  among  a  small  group  of  less  developed 
countries  with  industrial  economies  actively  developing  arms  ex- 
port industries.  In  the  international  arms  market,  competition  from 
larger  countries  was  formidable.  A  civilian  government  organiza- 
tion, the  Directorate  for  Supply  and  Procurement,  managed  for- 
eign sales  programs.  In  the  late  1980s,  arms  exports  averaged  over 
US$4Q0  million  per  year,  exceeding  US$500  million  per  year  twice 
between  1977  and  1987.  However,  the  amount  fluctuated  by  as 
much  as  40  percent  from  year  to  year.  Yugoslavia  sold  almost  US$2 


273 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


billion  worth  of  weapons  to  Iraq  in  its  war  with  Iran  during  the 
1980s.  In  that  decade,  Yugoslav  arms  sales  exceeded  those  of  War- 
saw Pact  countries  Hungary,  the  German  Democratic  Republic 
(East  Germany),  and  Bulgaria;  NATO  members  Belgium  and  the 
Netherlands;  and  neutral  countries  Austria,  Sweden,  and  Switzer- 
land. They  were  less  than  those  of  Warsaw  Pact  countries  Poland, 
Czechoslovakia,  and  Romania  and  NATO  countries  Spain  and 
Italy.  Arms  accounted  for  an  average  of  4  percent  of  total  Yugo- 
slav exports  annually  and  as  much  as  6  or  7  percent  in  some  years. 
In  all,  Yugoslav  arms  went  to  sixty-seven  countries  in  1990,  but 
the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa  were  the  prime  markets.  Many 
top  customer  countries  were  members  of  the  Nonaligned  Move- 
ment. Among  other  weapons  and  equipment,  Yugoslavia  export- 
ed ammunition,  antiarmor  and  antitank  weapons  systems,  frigates, 
missile  boats,  and  Mala  swimmer  delivery  vehicles.  A  proposed 
expansion  for  the  1990s  was  to  include  foreign  sale  of  the  Orao 
ground  attack  fighter  and  the  Partisan  helicopter. 

In  the  1980s,  Yugoslav  weapons  sales  to  troubled  regions  of  the 
world  became  an  important  ethical  issue  for  many  citizens,  espe- 
cially in  Slovenia.  They  objected  to  the  lack  of  Federal  Assembly 
oversight  and  public  information  about  the  country's  arms  indus- 
tries and  their  dealings  abroad.  In  the  early  1980s,  Yugoslavia  ap- 
parently helped  a  Swedish  firm  avoid  Sweden's  strict  arms  export 
laws.  It  posed  as  the  ultimate  recipient  of  Bofors  40mm  L/70  an- 
tiaircraft guns  and  artillery  pieces  that  were  subsequentiy  reexported 
to  Libya  and  Iraq.  The  incident  revealed  the  extent  of  Yugoslav 
involvement  in  the  international  arms  market.  In  1988  the  situa- 
tion became  a  cause  celebre  in  Slovenia  when  the  Slovenes  who 
had  revealed  Yugoslavia's  role  were  arrested  and  tried  for  divulg- 
ing military  secrets. 

Military  Exchanges 

Yugoslavia  conducted  active  military  exchanges  with  a  number 
of  countries,  including  the  United  States,  the  Soviet  Union,  other 
NATO  and  Warsaw  Pact  countries,  and  several  countries  in  North 
Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  Reciprocal  military  visits  with  the  Unit- 
ed States  were  frequent  in  the  late  1970s,  a  period  of  intense  Unit- 
ed States  concern  about  the  direction  of  post-Tito  Yugoslavia.  The 
United  States  secretary  of  defense  visited  Yugoslavia  in  1977  to 
discuss  possible  arms  sales  and  training  for  YPA  officers  in  the  Unit- 
ed States.  He  and  the  Yugoslav  secretary  for  national  defense  ex- 
changed visits  the  following  year.  They  discussed  possible  transfer 
of  antitank,  antiship,  and  air-to-surface  missiles,  aircraft  engines, 
communications  equipment,  and  an  integrated  naval  air  defense 


274 


National  Security 


system.  Of  these,  only  the  sale  of  Maverick  air-to-surface  missiles 
was  completed.  The  chairman  of  the  United  States  Joint  Chiefs 
of  Staff  visited  Yugoslavia  in  1979  and  1985,  and  the  secretary  of 
defense  returned  there  in  1982.  These  visits  included  discussions 
of  the  general  strategic  situation  in  Europe  and  the  long-standing 
Yugoslav  interest  in  buying  advanced  arms  from  the  United  States. 

Despite  the  Soviet  Union's  role  as  Yugoslavia's  leading  arms 
supplier,  relatively  few  high-level  military  exchanges  occurred  be- 
tween the  Soviet  Union  and  Yugoslavia.  A  1988  visit  by  the  Soviet 
minister  of  defense  to  Belgrade  was  the  first  since  1976;  the  Yu- 
goslav secretary  for  national  defense  returned  this  visit  in  1989. 
Both  visits  featured  discussion  of  increased  military  cooperation. 

Yugoslavia  had  many  contacts  with  countries  in  North  Africa 
and  the  Middle  East,  with  special  attention  to  Libya,  Egypt,  and 
Ethiopia.  Several  high-level  exchanges  occurred  with  the  Libyan 
armed  forces  in  the  late  1970s  and  1980s.  As  a  result,  Libya  pur- 
chased Yugoslav  armored  personnel  carriers,  small  arms,  patrol 
boats,  and  ammunition,  as  well  as  training  for  Libyan  officers  in 
Yugoslavia.  Egypt  and  Yugoslavia  established  a  military  coopera- 
tion program  in  1984.  Reciprocal  general  staff  visits  in  1988  and 
1989  elaborated  the  Yugoslav  role  in  training  Egyptian  soldiers  and 
upgrading  older  Soviet  arms  and  equipment  in  the  Egyptian  in- 
ventory. In  1988  the  Yugoslav  secretary  for  national  defense  visit- 
ed Ethiopia  to  promote  military-industrial  cooperation  between  the 
two  countries. 

Other  significant  military  visits  included  reciprocal  exchanges 
of  high-ranking  officers  with  India  in  1979  and  1984  and  with  An- 
gola in  1979  and  1986.  Like  Yugoslavia,  each  of  those  countries 
had  large  numbers  of  Soviet  weapons  systems  that  were  the  stimulus 
for  military  cooperation.  Angola  also  expressed  interest  in  Yugo- 
slav aircraft  and  pilot  training. 

Internal  Security 

The  internal  security  situation  in  Yugoslavia  threatened  national 
security  in  1990.  Internal  ethnic  tensions  were  a  potential  hindrance 
to  defense  against  external  threats.  As  was  demonstrated  in  World 
War  II,  such  discord  could  be  exploited  by  an  aggressor  to  over- 
come the  Yugoslav  armed  forces  and  occupy  the  country.  Even 
without  external  pressures,  open  civil  war  among  different  nation- 
alities seemed  a  real  possibility  in  1990.  Ethnic  Albanians  in  Kosovo, 
Croats,  and  Slovenes  felt  that  internal  security  provisions  were  ap- 
plied against  them  with  unwarranted  severity.  After  the  fall  of  East 
European  communist  regimes  in  1989,  the  internal  forces  aroused 


275 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

by  such  suspicions  and  resentments  overshadowed  any  external 
threat  to  national  security. 

Although  ordinary  crime  was  an  increasing  problem  in  Yugo- 
slav society  of  the  1980s,  political  crime  or  dissidence  was  more 
widely  publicized.  Dissident  activities  ranged  from  peaceful  pro- 
test and  publication  to  the  sensational  politically  motivated  violence, 
assassination,  and  terrorism  that  had  marked  the  country's  histo- 
ry (see  The  Public  and  Political  Decision  Making,  ch.  4).  In  the 
1980s,  nationalism  was  the  force  behind  the  most  visible  dissident 
activity.  Deemed  a  threat  to  the  unity  of  the  Yugoslav  federation, 
the  advocacy  of  nationalism  was  officially  considered  criminal.  Mili- 
tary courts  exercised  jurisdiction  in  all  cases  of  dissidence  because 
all  forms  of  such  activity  were  considered  a  threat  to  national  secu- 
rity. In  the  1980s,  civilian  internal  security  forces  proved  unable 
to  manage  large-scale  political  unrest  effectively;  they  depended 
increasingly  on  YPA  intervention  in  internal  security  matters. 

Dissidence 

Official  Yugoslav  sources  reported  that  political  offenses  increased 
dramatically  during  the  1980s.  Each  year  several  hundred  individu- 
als were  arrested  on  political  charges.  Those  arrested  generally  were 
either  intellectuals  arguing  for  greater  freedom  of  expression  or  na- 
tionalists agitating  for  change  in  the  composition  of  the  federal 
republic.  Violent  incidents  were  rare  when  compared  with  peace- 
ful expressions  of  dissident  political  ideas. 

The  Yugoslav  Constitution  of  1974  guarantees  the  citizen  many 
basic  rights  and  freedoms,  including  petition  (Article  157);  opin- 
ion (Article  166);  press,  media,  speech,  expression,  association,  and 
assembly  (Article  167);  movement  and  abode  (Article  183);  invio- 
lability of  the  home  (Article  184);  and  confidentiality  of  commu- 
nication (Article  185).  Nevertheless,  throughout  the  1970s  and  1980s 
writers,  poets,  sociologists,  philosophers,  and  ordinary  citizens 
received  harsh  punishments  for  exercising  the  basic  political  free- 
doms guaranteed  by  the  Constitution  as  well  as  by  international 
conventions  to  which  Yugoslavia  was  a  signatory.  Major  loopholes 
in  the  civil  rights  language  of  the  Constitution  legalized  prosecu- 
tion for  undefined  activities  inimical  to  the  established  constitu- 
tional order  (see  Djilas,  Praxis,  and  Intellectual  Repression,  ch. 
4).  By  1990  many  proposals  for  a  new  constitution  called  for  elimi- 
nation of  the  vague  language  that  had  allowed  selective  prosecu- 
tion. Given  the  open  political  climate  in  other  East  European  states 
by  1990,  Yugoslav  government  and  LCY  officials  became  increas- 
ingly sensitive  to  descriptions  of  Yugoslavia  as  a  police  state.  In- 
ternal and  external  political  events  pressured  the  government  and 


276 


National  Security 


party  toward  competing  with  politically  unacceptable  opinions  and 
ideas  rather  than  imposing  prison  sentences  on  those  who  expressed 
them. 

The  federal  criminal  code  of  1977  contained  one  chapter  on  petty 
offenses  against  the  social  system  and  security  of  the  country.  It 
included  a  number  of  political  offenses  and  so-called  "verbal 
crimes,"  another  catchall  category  under  which  many  types  of  op- 
position could  be  thwarted.  Any  article,  pamphlet,  or  speech  ad- 
vocating changes  in  the  socialist  self-management  system,  disrupting 
the  unity  of  nations  and  nationalities,  or  maliciously  or  untruth- 
fully portraying  sociopolitical  conditions  in  the  country  was  punish- 
able by  one  to  ten  years  in  prison  (Article  133).  Also  known  as 
the  Law  on  Hostile  Propaganda,  this  was  the  most  infamous  and 
frequently  applied  criminal  law  against  political  activity.  A  con- 
viction on  charges  of  hostile  propaganda  did  not  require  the  prose- 
cution to  prove  that  the  article,  pamphlet,  or  speech  in  question 
was  malicious  or  untruthful. 

Article  1 33  carried  a  mandatory  three-year  sentence  in  cases  with 
foreign  involvement.  Preparing,  possessing,  or  reproducing  such 
material  for  dissemination  could  bring  a  prison  term  of  five  years. 
A  sentence  for  violating  Article  133  usually  was  followed  by  a  ban 
on  public  appearance  and  expression  for  several  years.  The  law 
criminalized  open  criticism  of  the  one-party  political  system,  the 
LCY,  or  Tito;  possession  of  unsanctioned  historical  treatises  or 
emigre  newspapers;  granting  of  interviews  or  writing  of  works  pub- 
lished abroad;  authoring  of  political  graffiti;  and  circulation  of  pe- 
titions to  delete  Article  133  from  the  federal  criminal  code.  The 
Law  on  Hostile  Propaganda  was  applied  strictly  against  Yugoslav 
workers  abroad,  who  often  returned  with  emigre  literature  or 
newspapers  in  their  possession.  A  less  serious  category  of  "verbal 
crime"  was  described  as  damaging  the  reputation  of  the  state  or 
its  leaders  and  spreading  false  rumors.  Such  activity  was  punish- 
able by  short  prison  terms  of  one  or  two  months. 

In  the  wake  of  the  Kosovo  unrest  in  1981,  more  than  2,000  eth- 
nic Albanians,  many  of  them  students  and  instructors  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Pristina,  were  arrested  on  charges  of  damaging  official 
reputations.  About  250  people  received  sentences  under  Article  133 
for  terms  of  one  to  fifteen  years.  Another  250  people  received  fines 
or  sentences  of  sixty  days  for  lesser  "verbal  crimes."  Although  some 
violent  clashes  had  occurred,  most  convictions  were  for  shouting 
or  painting  slogans  on  walls  or  distributing  pamphlets  or  poems. 

Several  other  laws  criminalized  peaceful  political  or  nationalist  as- 
sociation and  assembly.  Such  activities  included  participation  in  hos- 
tile activity  (Article  131),  incitement  to  national  hatred  (Article  134), 


277 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

association  for  the  purpose  of  hostile  activity  (Article  136),  and 
counterrevolutionary  endangering  of  the  social  order  (Article  114). 
The  maximum  sentence  among  those  provisions  was  eight  years 
in  prison.  Yugoslavs  abroad  who  contacted  emigre  political  par- 
ties or  nationalist  groups  or  who  participated  in  demonstrations 
inside  the  country  have  been  sentenced  under  these  laws.  After  the 
Croatian  nationalist  crisis  of  1969-71,  over  500  Croats  were  sen- 
tenced using  those  provisions.  Article  134  in  particular  was  applied 
to  silence  individuals  who  raised  the  political,  economic,  or  cul- 
tural grievances  of  a  particular  nation  or  nationality  or  who  com- 
plained of  discrimination  against  such  a  group.  The  provision  was 
used  to  prevent  the  public  use  of  national  flags  and  songs  represent- 
ing the  ethnic  groups  of  the  Yugoslav  federation. 

In  the  absence  of  legal  means  of  peaceful  political  expression, 
many  individuals  and  groups  resorted  to  violence.  Several  nation- 
alist organizations  maintained  armed  paramilitary  or  terrorist  units. 
Their  actions  had  the  negative  effect  of  justifying  government 
repression  of  peaceful  as  well  as  violent  dissidents.  Nationalist 
groups  aimed  bombing  and  sabotage  attacks  at  official  targets  in 
Yugoslavia  and  abroad. 

The  secret  police  relentlessly  pursued  underground  nationalist 
groups.  In  1984  twenty- three  Croats  identified  with  the  separatist 
Croatian  Militant  Unity  group  were  convicted  for  allegedly  smug- 
gling arms  into  the  country  and  perpetrating  a  series  of  bombings. 
The  next  year,  six  Macedonians  were  imprisoned  for  a  campaign 
of  bombings  during  the  early  1970s. 

After  two  decades  of  unrest,  ethnic  Albanians  in  Kosovo  increas- 
ingly turned  to  violence.  They  occasionally  used  firearms  and  ex- 
plosives against  the  security  forces,  occupying  YPA  troops,  and 
Serbs  in  Kosovo.  This  development  indicated  the  adverse  conse- 
quences of  universal  military  training  in  a  tense  ethnic  situation. 
Many  ethnic  Albanians  involved  in  violent  activity  apparently  had 
learned  to  handle  weapons  in  the  army  or  in  the  TDF.  One  group 
in  Kosovo  hijacked  a  government  vehicle  carrying  small  arms. 

Courts,  Detention,  and  Punishment 

Arrest  without  warrant  was  standard  procedure.  Detainees  had 
the  right  to  know  the  reasons  for  their  arrest  within  twenty-four 
hours,  by  which  time  their  families  were  to  be  informed  of  their 
whereabouts.  Under  Article  178  of  the  Constitution,  a  prisoner 
could  be  held  three  days  before  a  judge  was  required  to  decide 
whether  further  detention  was  permissible.  The  court  could  detain 
individuals  for  three  months  without  charging  them  with  a  crimi- 
nal offense.  The  federal  Supreme  Court  had  the  power  to  extend 


278 


National  Security 


imprisonment  by  an  additional  three  months  without  charging  the 
individual  with  a  crime.  The  judiciary  lacked  sufficient  indepen- 
dence to  ensure  impartial  justice  for  all  citizens.  Judges  were  sub- 
ject to  party  discipline  by  the  LCY,  through  which  they  had  reached 
office.  Most  judges  were  appointed  only  after  receiving  party  ap- 
proval of  their  "  moral-political  suitability."  The  State  Presidency 
direcdy  appointed  and  dismissed  judges  and  prosecutors  (see  Court 
System,  ch.  4). 

Twelve  major  federal  prisons  were  operated  throughout  the  coun- 
try. Even  party  veterans  admitted  that  prison  conditions  were  worse 
under  the  LCY-dominated  government  than  they  were  under  the 
old  regime.  Amnesty  International  received  occasional  reports  of 
psychological  and  physical  abuse  applied  to  obtain  confessions  from 
detainees.  That  organization  estimated  that  at  least  several  hundred 
political  prisoners  were  held  in  Yugoslavia  in  any  given  year  of 
the  1980s.  Thousands  of  other  citizens  were  punished  by  more  in- 
sidious means.  The  government  often  revoked  or  denied  passports, 
or  it  dismissed  suspicious  individuals  from  employment  in  their 
chosen  profession. 

The  military  had  a  separate  court  system,  which  included  the 
Office  of  the  Military  Prosecutor  and  the  Supreme  Military  Court. 
Military  courts  tried  cases  involving  criminal  offenses  by  armed 
forces  personnel  and  cases  otherwise  connected  with  military  ser- 
vice. The  most  serious  offenses  in  this  category  were  desertion, 
dereliction  of  duty,  and  activities  contrary  to  military  morale.  Ar- 
ticle 221  of  the  Constitution  also  granted  military  courts  jurisdic- 
tion over  certain  criminal  offenses  committed  by  civilians  but  related 
to  national  defense.  They  could  impose  sentences,  including  the 
death  penalty,  for  criminal  offenses  that  undermined  the  econom- 
ic or  military  strength  of  the  country  in  times  of  war  or  imminent 
danger  of  war.  In  the  1980s,  military  courts  were  increasingly  used 
for  proceedings  against  civilians  because  they  could  be  conducted 
in  closed  sessions.  The  State  Presidency  appointed  and  dismissed 
military  judges  and  prosecutors,  as  it  did  for  civil  courts. 

In  a  highly  publicized  case  in  1988,  two  young  Slovenian  jour- 
nalists and  a  noncommissioned  officer  were  arrested  by  military 
authorities  and  accused  of  illegally  possessing  secret  military  in- 
formation. The  journalists  had  recently  published  an  article  criti- 
cal of  the  Yugoslav  role  as  intermediary  in  Swedish  arms  sales  to 
Libya  and  Iraq.  When  a  military  court  in  Ljubljana  found  them 
guilty  of  revealing  military  secrets,  thousands  of  Slovenes  protest- 
ed the  trial,  and  a  rash  of  physical  attacks  on  YPA  personnel  fol- 
lowed the  verdict. 


279 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Internal  Security  Forces 

Internal  security  forces  were  instrumental  in  establishing  and 
maintaining  the  communist-controlled  Yugoslav  state  after  World 
War  II.  They  were  responsible  for  identifying  and  prosecuting 
Ustase  leaders  and  others  who  collaborated  with  occupying  Ger- 
man and  Italian  forces  during  World  War  II.  But  alleged  collabo- 
ration became  a  pretext  for  reprisals  against  political  opponents 
such  as  the  Cetnici  and  others  who  did  not  support  Tito's  Parti- 
sans. Many,  including  Cetnik  leader  Draza  Mihajlovic  and  Croa- 
tian Roman  Catholic  archbishop  Alojzije  Stepinac,  were  executed 
or  imprisoned  after  summary  trials. 

After  the  break  in  relations  with  the  Soviet  Union  in  1948,  the 
Yugoslav  government  feared  that  the  Soviet  Union  might  find  or 
create  a  group  within  Yugoslavia  to  request  Soviet  intervention 
to  assist  it  in  "preserving  socialism."  The  Yugoslav  security  agency 
investigated  more  than  50,000  alleged  "Cominformists"  (from 
Cominform — see  Glossary),  or  pro-Soviet  party  members,  who 
were  subsequently  purged  from  the  party.  Several  thousand  were 
eventually  jailed,  either  without  trials  or  after  show  trials.  They 
were  interned  in  political  prisons  at  Goli  Otok  in  the  Adriatic,  at 
Sremska  Mitrovica  in  Vojvodina,  and  at  Stara  Gradiska  in  Bos- 
nia. Others  were  subjected  to  administrative  punishment  or  petty 
harassment. 

In  1948  the  Soviet  Union  formed  an  orthodox  CPY  in  exile  to 
rally  Tito's  opponents  and  to  topple  him.  To  support  this  move- 
ment, an  estimated  200  to  300  Yugoslav  "Cominformists"  took 
up  residence  in  Moscow.  The  YPA  was  an  important  target  of  their 
anti-Tito  propaganda.  The  CPY  in  exile  held  meetings  outside  the 
Soviet  Union  and  clandestine  party  congresses  inside  Yugoslavia. 
During  this  time,  Yugoslav  internal  security  forces  exercised  great 
power  and  directed  much  of  it  at  the  YPA.  Security  agents  exposed 
many  real  or  suspected  Soviet  operatives  in  high  positions  in  the 
YPA,  and  some  of  those  accused  were  executed.  The  resulting  bit- 
terness and  rivalry  between  the  internal  security  forces  and  the  YPA 
survived  for  decades  afterward. 

In  1966  a  major  purge  of  the  Yugoslav  internal  security  forces 
benefited  the  military  in  this  rivalry.  The  chief  of  the  secret  police — 
the  Directorate  for  State  Security  (Uprava  drzavne  bezbednosti — 
UDB) — Aleksandar  Rankovic,  was  involved  in  the  behind-the- 
scenes  struggle  to  be  next  in  line  to  Tito.  Allegedly  on  orders  from 
Rankovic,  the  UDB  covertly  monitored  the  telephone  calls  of  all 
major  party  leaders,  including  Tito.  When  Rankovic  was  dismissed 
in  1966,  however,  the  official  announcement  mentioned  only  his 


280 


National  Security 


responsibility  for  UDB  brutality  and  repression  of  Kosovo's  Alba- 
nian population.  The  military  equivalent  of  the  UDB,  the  Military 
Counterintelligence  Service  (Kontraobavestajna  sluzba — KOS)  was 
instrumental  in  exposing  UDB  activities.  The  UDB  was  purged, 
its  name  was  changed  to  the  State  Security  Service  (Sluzba  drzavne 
bezbednosti — SDB),  and  a  YPA  general  became  its  chief.  In  its 
new  form,  the  agency  retained  substantial  secret  police  powers. 

The  YPA  has  maintained  some  control  over  the  civilian  security 
service  since  the  1966  purge.  After  the  Croatian  nationalist  unrest 
of  1971,  a  general  became  federal  secretary  for  internal  affairs  (the 
secretariat  controlling  the  SDB),  and  another  became  federal  public 
prosecutor.  Using  such  appointments,  the  military  controlled  the 
internal  security  forces  until  1984.  In  1990  a  former  chief  of  the 
YPA  General  Staff  was  federal  secretary  for  internal  affairs. 

During  the  1980s,  the  SDB  actively  pursued  its  mission  of  iden- 
tifying and  neutralizing  emigre  organizations  in  foreign  countries 
to  inhibit  their  efforts  to  establish  contacts  and  support  inside  Yu- 
goslavia. A  small  number  of  emigre  groups  of  various  political  per- 
suasions and  nationalities  committed  violent  acts  against  Yugoslav 
interests  abroad.  Those  acts  sometimes  included  assassinations  of 
Yugoslav  diplomats  or  representatives  abroad.  Special  attention 
went  to  pro-Soviet  Yugoslav  exiles,  whose  activities  against  the  Yu- 
goslav government  were  well  supported  by  Soviet  funds.  Believ- 
ing that  such  groups  threatened  public  order,  the  SDB  and  its 
clandestine  foreign  intelligence  units  used  various  means  to  coun- 
ter their  activities.  The  SDB  monitored  the  activities  of  the  pro- 
Soviet  CPY  organization,  which  advocated  overthrow  of  Tito,  in 
Yugoslavia  and  other  countries.  In  1974  thirty-two  Montenegrins 
convicted  of  organizing  a  CPY  congress  received  prison  terms  of 
up  to  fourteen  years.  A  long  investigation  of  this  case  ended  in  the 
arrest  of  a  Soviet  diplomat  in  1976. 

Another  major  task  of  the  SDB  was  to  monitor  Croatian  organi- 
zations in  Austria,  Sweden,  France,  West  Germany,  Canada,  and 
the  United  States.  Surveillance  of  these  groups  provided  evidence 
for  prosecuting  Yugoslavs  who  contacted  them  when  abroad  and 
then  returned  home.  The  SDB  reportedly  abducted  and  assassi- 
nated prominent  emigres.  A  former  YPA  colonel  who  escaped  im- 
prisonment as  an  alleged  "Cominformist"  in  1948  was  seized  in 
Romania  in  1976,  clandestinely  returned  to  Yugoslavia,  and  jailed. 
As  many  as  twenty  troublesome  emigres  may  have  been  killed  in 
Europe  by  the  SDB,  by  other  Yugoslav  operatives,  or  by  their  paid 
agents  since  the  early  1970s.  In  1981  two  West  Germans  and  one 
Yugoslav  were  convicted  for  murdering  an  emigre  in  West  Ger- 
many. They  were  allegedly  paid  a  large  sum  to  kill  a  former  SDB 


281 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

agent  who  defected  from  the  security  service  while  abroad.  How- 
ever, the  Yugoslav  government  contended  that  most  violence  against 
emigres  was  committed  by  rival  emigre  organizations,  not  by 
the  SDB. 

Organization  for  Internal  Security 

The  Council  for  the  Protection  of  the  Constitutional  Order  was 
the  highest  government  organization  responsible  for  internal  secu- 
rity matters.  Its  chairman  was  the  president  of  the  collective  State 
Presidency,  and  its  membership  included  the  federal  secretary  for 
internal  affairs,  the  federal  secretary  for  national  defense,  and  other 
military,  party,  and  civilian  officials.  Under  the  Constitution,  the 
State  Presidency  has  the  authority  to  order  the  use  of  the  armed 
forces  in  peacetime  to  ensure  internal  security.  It  can  suspend  any 
provision  in  the  Constitution  if  necessary  for  defense  and  security 
during  war  or  imminent  danger  of  war. 

Considerable  police  and  paramilitary  power  was  concentrated 
in  the  Secretariat  for  Internal  Affairs,  which  supervised  the  work 
of  subordinate  secretariats  for  internal  affairs  in  the  republics  and 
provinces.  Besides  the  SDB,  the  federal  secretariat  included  the 
Office  of  the  Federal  Public  Prosecutor,  who  in  turn  controlled  pub- 
lic prosecutors  in  the  republics. 

The  SDB  was  responsible  for  identifying  and  neutralizing  sub- 
versive elements  regarded  as  threats  to  the  constitutional  order  and 
the  socialist  self-management  system.  Both  violent  groups  and 
peaceful  dissidents  were  included  in  this  broad  category.  Plainclothes 
SDB  agents  investigated  and  monitored  such  groups  and  infiltrated 
their  ranks.  One  of  the  SDB's  most  effective  weapons  was  the  con- 
cept of  social  self-protection.  It  was  the  equivalent  of  the  TDF  in 
internal  security  matters.  Article  173  of  the  Constitution  declared 
the  duty  of  all  citizens  to  participate  in  social  self-protection  by 
reporting  immediately  to  the  SDB  their  knowledge  of  "hostile  activi- 
ties," including  ordinary  crime,  political  offenses,  and  terrorism. 

The  Secretariat  for  Internal  Affairs  also  controlled  a  federal 
paramilitary  force,  the  People's  Militia,  which  numbered  more  than 
15,000  troops.  This  force  operated  numerous  BOV-M  armored 
vehicles  equipped  with  machine  guns,  water  cannons,  smoke  and 
tear  gas  launchers  for  crowd  control  and  riot  situations,  armored 
personnel  carriers,  and  helicopters.  These  internal  security  troops 
were  well  paid,  heavily  indoctrinated,  experienced,  and  reliable. 
They  could  be  deployed  in  times  of  political  unrest  or  disorder  when 
the  local  police  were  expected  to  side  with  the  populace  against  fed- 
eral authorities.  The  People's  Militia  provided  security  for  the  1984 
Winter  Olympics  in  Sarajevo.  The  Secretariat  for  Internal  Affairs 


282 


National  Security 


also  controlled  15,000  troops  in  border  guard  units.  In  coastal  areas, 
the  border  guards  operated  sixteen  patrol  boats  in  1990. 

The  secretariats  for  internal  affairs  in  the  republics  and  provinces 
controlled  the  militia  (regular  police)  forces  in  their  territory.  In 
1990  there  were  an  estimated  40,000  professional  law  enforcement 
officers.  They  were  responsible  for  maintaining  government  com- 
munications, issuing  travel  documents  to  citizens,  and  registering 
foreign  residents.  The  average  militia  officer  was  male,  twenty- 
two  years  of  age,  and  had  completed  his  secondary  education  in 
special  schools  operated  by  the  Secretariat  for  Internal  Affairs.  Select 
militia  officers  were  later  sent  for  a  university  education. 

The  militia  were  organized  into  stations  and  substations  in  larger 
cities.  They  were  involved  in  routine  law  enforcement  as  well  as 
more  sensitive  cases  involving  ethnic  groups.  Cases  ranged  from 
physical  attacks  and  harassment  to  homicide.  In  Pristina,  site  of 
a  major  university  and  a  center  of  Albanian  ethnic  dissidence, 
every  confrontation  with  authority  had  the  potential  to  erupt  into 
large  disturbances  between  ethnic  communities.  In  1990  that  city 
had  seven  militia  stations  and  four  substations,  serving  a  popula- 
tion of  400,000: 

The  Military  in  Domestic  Peacekeeping 

The  YPA  became  involved  in  internal  security  when  unrest  in 
Kosovo  escalated  in  1981.  Under  a  declaration  of  national  emer- 
gency, the  army  intervened  to  stop  demonstrations  by  ethnic  Al- 
banians beyond  the  control  of  the  LCY,  People's  Militia,  and  local 
militia.  Hundreds  of  citizens  were  injured,  and  some  were  killed 
during  the  YPA's  suppression  of  the  demonstrations.  Some  reports 
indicated  that  one-fourth  of  the  YPA's  total  manpower  remained 
in  Kosovo  to  maintain  order  throughout  the  1980s.  The  YPA 
presence  added  to  local  resentment;  demonstrations  resumed  in 
1987  and  continued  through  1990. 

Use  of  military  force  against  the  domestic  population  to  main- 
tain order  aroused  controversy.  Top  government  and  party  lead- 
ers, rank-and-file  military,  and  government  critics  expressed  varying 
opinions.  Political  leaders  expected  the  military  to  ensure  the  uni- 
ty of  Yugoslavia  and  preserve  its  constitutional  order  against  in- 
ternal threats.  Yet  the  internal  security  mission  put  the  YPA  under 
great  stress  because  it  was  not  structured  or  equipped  for  such  ac- 
tivity. In  Kosovo  the  YPA  suffered  consistent  intense  hostility  from 
the  ethnic  Albanian  population,  including  armed  attacks  by  local 
militants.  Some  officers  believed  involvement  in  ethnic  problems 
put  the  army  in  a  dangerous  position  of  opposing  large  segments 
of  society.  More  important,  they  believed  that  such  involvement 


283 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

might  weaken  or  divide  the  YPA.  Many  in  this  group  preferred 
to  stay  in  the  barracks  and  concentrate  on  defense  against  foreign 
aggression.  Outside  critics  of  the  YPA  also  argued  that  its  only  legiti- 
mate role  was  external  defense  and  that  the  army  was  a  bulwark 
of  the  excessive  centralism  opposed  by  many  citizens.  The  YPA 
seemed  to  be  involved  in  all  Yugoslavia's  political  and  social  crises. 
Some  citizens  looked  to  it  for  solutions;  others  viewed  it  as  part 
of  the  country's  problems. 

The  controversy  surrounding  the  role  of  the  YPA  in  1990  meant 
that  the  political  and  social  tensions  of  Yugoslavia  had  finally  be- 
gun to  affect  the  last  bastion  of  all- Yugoslav  solidarity.  Significant 
reduction  in  the  threat  of  foreign  invasion  and  the  urgent  need  for 
reduction  in  a  high  military  budget  also  brought  major  changes 
in  actual  Yugoslav  military  practice — although  in  1990  the  World 
War  II-vintage  doctrine  of  civilian  defense  forces  and  preparation 
for  invasion  remained  in  place.  At  the  policy  level,  Yugoslavia's 
nonaligned  military  position  remained  firm;  greater  emphasis  on 
domestic  arms  manufacture  and  reduced  reliance  on  the  Soviet 
Union  and  other  suppliers  strengthened  that  position.  Meanwhile, 
Yugoslav  security  forces  continued  to  monitor  dissident  activity  at 
home  and  abroad.  As  nationalist  political  activism  grew  in  the 
1980s,  the  role  of  the  security  forces  increased,  particularly  in  tur- 
bulent Kosovo.  By  1990,  however,  the  democratization  of  neigh- 
boring countries  and  the  pluralization  of  Yugoslav  society  exerted 
substantial  pressure  to  abolish  laws  that  justified  arbitrary  prose- 
cution of  domestic  dissident  activity.  Many  observers  believed  that 
the  fragmentation  threatened  by  reduced  control  of  nationalist  ac- 
tivity might  become  a  justification  for  military  intervention  in  na- 
tional politics  or  for  expanded  use  of  the  YPA  in  quelling  civil 
disturbances. 

*     *  * 

In  Yugoslavia's  Security  Dilemmas  and  numerous  articles,  Marko 
Milivojevic  shows  that  he  is  a  leading  student  of  Yugoslav  security 
and  military  affairs.  A  number  of  Yugoslav  authors  describe  well 
the  country's  military  history  and  doctrine.  Walter  R.  Roberts's 
Tito,  Mihailovic,  and  the  Allies ,  1941-1945,  a  vital  work  on  Yugosla- 
via during  World  War  II,  was  revised  and  updated  in  1987. 
Although  articles  by  former  YPA  officer  and  emigre  Milan  N.  Vego 
are  somewhat  dated,  they  offer  firsthand  experience  with  the  sub- 
ject. The  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty  reports  on  external 
security  matters  are  useful  sources  of  up-to-date  information  on  ex- 
ternal security  matters.  The  Daily  Report:  East  Europe  of  the  Foreign 


284 


National  Security 


Broadcast  Information  Service  is  important  for  obtaining  transla- 
tions of  illuminating  articles  from  the  Yugoslav  military  press.  The 
United  States  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency's  annual 
report  World  Military  Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers  is  a  source  of 
data  on  the  economics  of  national  defense  in  Yugoslavia.  Amnesty 
International  reports  provide  reliable  coverage  of  the  internal  secu- 
rity and  human  rights  situation  in  the  country.  (For  further  infor- 
mation and  complete  citations,  see  Bibliography.) 


285 


Appendix 


Table 

1  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 

2  Life  Expectancy  by  Republic  and  Province,  1952  and  1982 

3  Birth  Rates  and  Mortality  Rates  by  Republic  and  Province, 

1947  and  1984 

4  Population  by  Ethnic  Group,  1948  and  1981 

5  Ethnic  Structure  of  Republics  and  Provinces,  1981 

6  Estimated  Pension  Recipients,  1965,  1982,  and  1988 

7  Level  of  Education  by  Republic  and  Province,  1953  and  1981 

8  Schools  Teaching  Minority  Languages,  1987 

9  Literacy  Rate  by  Republic  and  Province,  1948  and  1981 

10  Medical  Personnel  and  Hospital  Beds,  Selected  Years,  1955-87 

11  Government  Budget,  1988 

12  Employment  in  Selected  Enterprise  Categories,  1975,  1985, 

and  1988 

13  Indexes  of  Production  in  Selected  Nonpriority  Industries, 

Selected  Years,  1952-90 

14  Indicators  of  Agricultural  Development,  1975,  1985,  and  1988 

15  Value  of  Selected  Exports,  1986,  1987,  and  1988 

16  Value  of  Selected  Imports,  1986,  1987,  and  1988 

17  Principal  Trading  Partners,  1988 

18  Debt  Data,  1984,  1986,  and  1988 

19  Area  and  Population  of  Republics  and  Provinces,  1981 


287 


Appendix 


Table  1.  Metric  Conversion  Coefficients  and  Factors 


When  you  know  Multiply  by  To  find 


Millimeters    0.04  inches 

Centimeters   0.39  inches 

Meters   3.3  feet 

Kilometers   0.62  miles 

Hectares  (10,000  m2)   2.47  acres 

Square  kilometers    0.39  square  miles 

Cubic  meters   35.3  cubic  feet 

Liters   0.26  gallons 

Kilograms    2.2  pounds 

Metric  tons    0.98  long  tons 

  1.1  short  tons 

  2,204  pounds 

Degrees  Celsius   9  degrees  Fahrenheit 

(Centigrade)  divide  by  5 

and  add  32 


289 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


V  o 


§  g 


°1  °9 

cr>  m 

in*  K 

CO  © 

CO  o 

cd  r>< 
lo  <£> 

co'  CO 
m 

O  CM 

©  ~ 

co  in 

«  CO 

i-j  © 

m  to 

m  r*- 

cn 

m 

cd  i-5 
m 

co  <r> 
m 

<£> 

cr>  cm 

CO 

m  ix) 

CM 

m  i>- 

lO  ^ 

CO 

CO  © 
r-» 

1-1  CO 

m 

<X>  CM 

ud  m 

CM  CO 

m  to 

CM  CO 

m 

CM  CM 

13  2  £ 


D  CM  CM 

m  co 


290 


Appendix 


CM  rh 


cm 


10 


UN* 
-  ^  CO 

-§22 


CM  *H 
0>  CM 


©  co 
cm  in 


*  CO 


CO  CO 
CM  C?i 


CM  t-* 


in 

co  d 


CO 
CO*  !>.' 


©  CO 
co  in 


in  co 
co  ^ 


CO  CO 
CM  <X> 


o 

(2 


•fi 

u 

=  I 
8*1 


1 


a.  12 


</3   J   Oh  Cl, 


291 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Table  4.  Population  by  Ethnic  Group,  1948  and  1981 


Ethnic  Group  1948  1981 


Serbs    6,547,117  8,140,452 

Croats    3,784,353  4,428,005 

Muslim  Slavs   808,921  1,999,957 

Slovenes    1,415,432  1,753,554 

Albanians   750,431  1,730,364 

Macedonians    810,126  1,339,729 

Yugoslavs1    n.a.  1,219,045 

Montenegrins   425,703  579,023 

Hungarians    496,492  426,866 

Gypsies    72,736  168,099 

Turks   97,954  101,191 

Slovaks    83,626  80,334 

Romanians    64,095  54,954 

Bulgars    61,140  36,185 

Vlachs    102,953  32,063 

Ruthenians    37,140  23,285 

Czechs    39,015  19,625 

Italians   79,575  15,132 

Ukrainians   n.a.  12,813 

Germans    55,337  8,712 

Russians    20,069  4,463 

Poles    n.a.  3,043 

Greeks    n.a.  1,639 

Austrians    n.a.  1,402 

Jews   n.a.  1,383 

Other   19,883  17,645 


TOTAL   15,772,098  22,424,711  2 


n.a. — not  available. 

1  No  ethnic  identity  claimed. 

2  Includes  individuals  not  reporting  or  not  reporting  under  prescribed  census  headings. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Yugoslavia,  Savezni  zavod  za  statistiku,  Statisticki godisnjak 
Jugoslavije,  1989,  Belgrade,  1990,  122. 


292 


Appendix 


1  I 

e3  > 


o  g 


CO 


°j  i  **!    °i  °i  °.  °i 


NOOONOhO  Oh 


w  cy  q 

IN  6  N 


(N  »h  ts  00 

d  N  d  a 


co  th  ©       ©  co  ©'  r>! 


-noooinoodooco 


*    fl    Ol  H 


c  o  S 

S  H  « 
o  8  sS  P 


^  2)1 


to  h 


00 


i 

«  6  o 

D*  ■£   >»  * 

It'll 
c  2  .a  £ 

S  S3  o  & 
■  a>  Z  Ct. 


I 

I 
•  5 

.1 

J 

13 


293 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  6.  Estimated  Pension  Recipients,  1965,  1982,  and  1988 

1965  1982  1988 

Old-age                                                         314,000  650,000  934,000 

Disability                                                       311,000  623,000  780,000 

Survivor                                                       224,000  487,000  621,000 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Yugoslavia,  Savezni  zavod  za  statistiku,  Statisticki godisnjak 
Jugoskvije,  1989,  Belgrade,  1990,  406. 


294 


Appendix 


O  u 


© 

CM 

© 

CO 

CO 

CM 

m 

o 

cm 

id 

d 

d 

o 

id 

in 

in 

© 

-* 

o 

CM 

CM 

CM 

o 

m 

m 

m 

o 

CM 

o 

CO 

<£> 

o 

o 

CO 

m 

o 

cm 

IT) 

o 

CM 

CO 

CM 

o 

CM  cm  m  CM  CO 


m  cm  o  o  co 
^'  co      in!  6 


CM  ffl  N  CI  lO 


N  M  m  OD  CO 


CM  CO  CT>  CO  — i 
<  CM  t— <  CM  O 


in  o  co  co 


CO  ° 

m  r«C 


S   S  r 

S  £  § 


JS  o 
bp  H 


io  ^  in  m  oi 


N  oo  CO  -h  ^ 


>n  co  '-i  cm 


CD  i-H         CO  CO 


m  o>  cm  cn  * 


cm  co  cm  co 


CM  CM  CM  CM 


bo  3 


S  S 
Oh  Oh 


TO  — 


1  2 

e3  O 
IS  u 


is  1 

3  2 

V  o 

at  ~ 

S  1 


■8.1 


13 

c3 

Ih 
JSC 

g 

in 


295 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Table  8.  Schools  Teaching  Minority  Languages,  1987 


Language  Primary  Schools      Secondary  Schools 


Albanian    1,221  112 

Bulgarian    40  n.a. 

Hungarian    151  25 

Italian    27  7 

Romanian    31  2 

Turkish    66  14 

Other  *    40  4 


n.a. — not  available. 

*  Czech,  Russian,  Slovak,  and  Ukrainian. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Yugoslavia,  Savezni  zavod  za  statistiku,  Statisticki  godisnjak 
Jugoslavije,  1989,  Belgrade,  1990,  373. 


Table  9.  Literacy  Rate  by  Republic  and  Province,  1948  and  1981 


Republic  or  Province  1948  1981 


  55.1 

85.5 

  84.4 

94.4 

  37.5 

82.4 

  59.7 

89.1 

  73.6 

90.6 

  72.6 

88.9 

  97.6 

99.2 

  88.2 

94.2 

YUGOSLAVIA   

  74.6 

90.5 

*  Serbia  proper  is  the  Republic  of  Serbia  excluding  the  provinces  of  Kosovo  and  Vojvodina. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Dusan  Miljkovic  (ed.),  Jugoslavia,  1945-1985,  Belgrade, 
1986,  199;  and  Joseph  Rothschild,  East  Central  Europe  Between  the  Two  World  Wars, 
Seattle,  1974,  ix. 


296 


Appendix 


Table  10.  Medical  Personnel  and  Hospital  Beds,  Selected  Years,  1955-87 

1955  1965  1975  1987 


Physicians 

Specialists    n.a.  9,714  13,466  24,897 

Other    n.a.  5,729  10,747  20,972 

Total  physicians    8,136  15,443  24,213  45,869 

Medical  workers   n.a.  53,150  95,004  145,372 

Hospital  beds    68,165  112,958  127,645  142,427 


n.a. — not  available. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Yugoslavia,  Savezni  zavod  za  statistiku,  Statisticki  godisnjak 
Jugoslavije,  1989,  Belgrade,  1990,  400. 


Table  11.  Government  Budget,  1988 
(in  billions  of  dinars)* 


Republic,  Province, 
and  Commune 

Federal 

Schools  

Other   

  128 

  50 

  334 

  3,234 

  3,402 

0 

5,247 
1,184 
454 
712 

TOTAL   

  7,148 

7,597 

*  For  value  of  the  dinar — see  Glossary. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1990,  2,  London,  1990,  2976. 


297 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  12.  Employment  in  Selected  Enterprise  Categories, 
1975,  1985,  and  1988 
(in  thousands  of  workers) 


Enterprise  Category  1975         1985  1988 


  1,819 

2,529 

2,716 

  177 

233 

246 

  492 

608 

584 

  346 

441 

459 

  476 

641 

676 

  170 

254 

278 

  354 

429 

449 

  239 

376 

420 

Other   

  685 

1,005 

1,056 

TOTAL    4,758      6,516  6,884 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  Yugoslavia,  Savezni  zavod  za  statistiku,  Statisticki  godisnjak 
Jugoskvije,  1989,  Belgrade,  1990,  144. 


Table  13.  Indexes  of  Production  in  Selected  Nonpriority  Industries, 
Selected  Years,  1952-90 
(1987  =  100) 


Industry 

1952 

1960 

1970 

1980 

1990 

  5 

17 

44 

98 

103 

  13 

30 

50 

105 

101 

Food   

  5 

26 

48 

88 

96 

  3 

14 

40 

96 

99 

  3 

11 

42 

86 

102 

  29 

41 

55 

92 

87 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Yugoslavia,  Savezni  zavod  za  statistiku,  Statisticki  godisnjak 
Jugoskvije,  1989,  Belgrade,  1990,  280. 


298 


Appendix 


Table  14.  Indicators  of  Agricultural  Development, 
1975,  1985,  and  1988 

1975  1985  1988 

Tractors  1 

State                                                                             26  32  33 

Private                                                                           200  850  1,033 

Total  tractors                                                               226  882  1,066 

Livestock  1 

State    458  863  924 

Private    4,981  4,412  4,153 

Total  livestock    5,439  5,275  5,077 

Cultivated  area  2 

State    1,535  1,695  1,741 

Private   8,466  8,146  8,077 

Total  cultivated  area    10,001  9,841  9,818 

1  In  thousands. 

2  In  thousands  of  hectares. 

Source:  Based  on  information  from  Yugoslavia,  Savezni  zavod  za  statistiku,  Statisticki  godisnjak 
Jugoslavije,  1989,  Belgrade,  1990,  250. 


Table  15.  Value  of  Selected  Exports,  1986,  1987,  and  1988 
(in  billions  of  dinars)  * 


Commodity  1986         1987  1988 


  341 

680 

2,455 

  171 

435 

1,801 

  80 

170 

520 

  478 

996 

2,982 

  151 

326 

1,326 

  153 

524 

2,014 

  189 

519 

2,113 

  1,381 

2,683 

5,127 

*  For  value  of  the  dinar — see  Glossary. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1990,  2,  London,  1990, 
2977-78. 


299 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Table  16.  Value  of  Selected  Imports,  1986,  1987,  and  1988 
(in  billions  of  dinars)  * 


Commodity  1986         1987  1988 


  296 

529 

2,126 

  483 

877 

3,765 

  925 

1,659 

6,055 

  707 

1,553 

5,958 

  152 

363 

1,087 

  292 

508 

1,650 

  1,483 

2,904 

9,340 

*  For  value  of  the  dinar — see  Glossary. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1990,  2,  London,  1990, 
2977-78. 


Table  17.  Principal  Trading  Partners,  1988 
(in  billions  of  dinars)  1 


Country 

Imports  2 

Exports  3 

Czechoslovakia   

Iraq  

Italy  

Poland  

Other  

  1,569 

  1,183 

  1,450 

  1,642 

  3,582 

  1,134 

  4,569 

  1,901 

  5,898 

  11,449 

1,127 
1,380 
1,281 
1,034 
4,922 
1,283 
6,145 
1,892 
3,728 
10,089 

TOTAL   

  34,377 

32,881 

1  For  value  of  the  dinar — see  Glossary. 

2  Cost,  insurance,  and  freight. 

3  Free  on  board. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1990,  2,  London,  1990, 
2977-78. 


300 


Appendix 


Table  18.  Debt  Data,  1984,  1986,  and  1988 
(in  millions  of  United  States  dollars) 


1984  1986  1988 


  44,274 

64,664 

49,782 

  1,732 

2,189 

3,074 

  17,691 

19,414 

20,373 

  1,567 

1,540 

1,773 

  -120 

-886 

52 

  2,338 

1,777 

1,401 

*  IMF — International  Monetary  Fund. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  World  Bank,  World  Debt  Tables,  1989-90,  Washing- 
ton, 1990,  21. 


Table  19.  Area  and  Population  of  Republics  and  Provinces,  1981 


Republic  or  Province 

Area  1 

Population 

Capital 

  51,129 

4,124,008 

Sarajevo 

  56,538 

4,601,469 

Zagreb 

  10,887 

1,584,441 

Pristina 

  25,713 

1,912,257 

Skopje 

  13,812 

584,310 

Titograd 

  55,968 

5,694,464 

Belgrade 

  20,251 

1,891,864 

Ljubljana 

  21,506 

2,034,772 

Novi  Sad 

TOTAL   

  255,804 

22,427,585 

1  In  square  kilometers. 

2  Serbia  proper  is  the  Republic  of  Serbia  excluding  the  provinces  of  Kosovo  and  Vojvodina.  The  total 
area  of  the  Republic  of  Serbia  is  88,361  square  kilometers,  and  the  total  population  of  the  republic 
is  9,313,677. 


Source:  Based  on  information  from  The  Europa  Year  Book,  1990,  2,  London,  1990,  2974. 


301 


Bibliography 


Chapter  1 

Adamcek,  Josip.  "Ekonomsko-drustveni  razvoj  u  sjeverozapad- 
noj  Hrvatskoj  u  16.  i  17.  stoleci."  Pages  15-40  in  Mirjana  Gross 
(ed.),  Drustveni  razvoj  u  Hrvatskoj.  Zagreb:  Sveucilisna  naklada 
Liber,  1981. 

 "Seljacka  buna  1573."  Pages  41-58  in  Mirjana  Gross 

(ed.),  Drustveni  razvoj  u  Hrvatskoj.  Zagreb:  Sveucilisna  naklada 
Liber,  1981. 

Alexander,  John.  Jugoslavia  Before  the  Roman  Conquest.  London: 
Thames  and  Hudson,  1972. 

Barker,  Elisabeth.  Macedonia.  London:  Royal  Institute  of  Interna- 
tional Affairs,  1950. 

Bogdanovic,  Dimitrije.  Knjiga  o  Kosovu.  Belgrade:  Srpska  akademija 
nauka  i  umetnosti,  1986. 

Burg,  Steven  L.  Conflict  and  Cohesion  in  Socialist  Yugoslavia.  Prince- 
ton: Princeton  University  Press,  1983. 

Clissold,  Stephen.  Yugoslavia  and  the  Soviet  Union,  1939-1973.  Lon- 
don: Oxford  University  Press,  1975. 

Clissold,  Stephen  (ed.).  A  Short  History  of  Yugoslavia.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1966. 

Crankshaw,  Edward.  Khrushchev:  A  Career.  New  York:  Viking  Press, 
1966. 

Crnja,  Zvane.  Kulturna  historija  Hrvatske.  Zagreb:  Epoha,  1965. 

Cviic,  K.F.  "The  Nature  of  Government  and  Politics  in  Yugosla- 
via." Pages  345-63  in  George  Schopflin  (ed.),  The  Soviet  Union 
and  Eastern  Europe.  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1986. 

Dedijer,  Vladimir,  et  al.  History  of  Yugoslavia.  New  York:  McGraw- 
Hill,  1974. 

Denitch,  Bogdan.  "Yugoslavia:  The  Limits  of  Reform,"  Dissent, 

36,  Winter  1989,  78-85. 
Deutscher,  Isaac.  Stalin.  New  York:  Oxford  University  Press,  1967. 
Djilas,  Milovan.  Land  Without  Justice.  New  York:  Harcourt  Brace, 

1958. 

 The  Unperfect  Society.  New  York:  Harcourt,  Brace  and 

World,  1969. 

Djordjevic,  Dimitrije  (ed.).  The  Creation  of  Yugoslavia,  1914-1918. 

Santa  Barbara,  California:  Clio  Books,  1980. 
Dragnich,  Alex  N.  The  First  Yugoslavia.  Stanford,  California:  Hoover 

Institution  Press,  1983. 


303 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Dvornik,  Francis.  Byzantine  Missions  among  the  Slavs.  New  Brunswick, 
New  Jersey:  Rutgers  University  Press,  1970. 

 .  The  Making  of  Central  and  Eastern  Europe.  Gulf  Breeze, 

Florida:  Academic  International  Press,  1974. 

 .  The  Slavs:  Their  Early  History  and  Civilization.  Boston:  Ameri- 
can Academy  of  Art  and  Sciences,  1956. 

 .  The  Slavs  in  European  History  and  Civilization.  New  Bruns- 
wick, New  Jersey:  Rutgers  University  Press,  1962. 

Ekmecic,  Milorad.  " Serbian  War  Aims."  Pages  20-31  in  Dimi- 
trije  Djordjevic  (ed.),  The  Creation  of  Yugoslavia,  1914-1918.  Santa 
Barbara,  California:  Clio  Books,  1980. 

Freidenreich,  Harriet  Pass.  The  Jews  of  Yugoslavia.  Philadelphia: 
Jewish  Publication  Society  of  America,  1979. 

Gati,  Charles.  Hungary  and  the  Soviet  Bloc.  Durham,  North  Carolina: 
Duke  University  Press,  1986. 

Germany.  Foreign  Ministry.  Documents  on  German  Foreign  Policy, 
1919-1945.  Washington:  GPO,  1949. 

Gomori,  George.  "The  Political  and  Social  Setting  of  the  Con- 
temporary Arts."  Pages  547-64  in  George  Schopflin  (ed.),  The 
Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Europe.  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1986. 

Gross,  Mirjana  (ed.).  Drustveni  razvoj  u  Hrvatskoj.  Zagreb:  Sveu- 
cilisna  naklada  Liber,  1981. 

Guldescu,  Stanko.  History  of  Medieval  Croatia.  The  Hague:  Mou- 
ton,  1964. 

Herodotus.  The  Persian  Wars.  New  York:  Modern  Library,  1942. 

Hoptner,J.B.  Yugoslavia  in  Crisis ,  1934-1941.  New  York:  Colum- 
bia University  Press,  1962. 

Ilustrirana  povijest  Hrvata.  Zagreb:  Stvarnost,  1971. 

Ionescu,  Ghita.  Communism  in  Rumania.  London:  Oxford  Univer- 
sity Press,  1964. 

Kann,  Robert  A.  A  History  of  the  Habsburg  Empire.  Berkeley:  Univer- 
sity of  California  Press,  1974. 

Lampe,  John  R.  "Unifying  the  Yugoslav  Economy,  1918-1921: 
Misery  and  Early  Misunderstandings."  Pages  139-56  in  Dimi- 
trije  Djordjevic  (ed.),  The  Creation  of  Yugoslavia,  1914-1918.  Santa 
Barbara,  California:  Clio  Books,  1980. 

Littlefield,  Frank  C.  Germany  and  Yugoslavia,  1933-1941.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  East  European  Monographs,  1988. 

Logoreci,  Anton.  "A  Clash  Between  Two  Nationalities  in  Kosova." 
Pages  185-94  in  Arshi  Pipa  and  Sami  Repishti  (eds.),  Studies  on 
Kosova.  Boulder,  Colorado:  East  European  Monographs,  1984. 

Macartney,  Carlile  Alymer.  Hungary:  A  Short  History.  Edinburgh: 
University  Press,  1962. 


304 


Bibliography 


McDonald,  Gordon  C,  et  al.  Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study.  (DA  Pam 
550-99.)  Washington:  GPO  for  Foreign  Area  Studies,  The 
American  University,  1971. 

Micunovic,  Veljko.  Moskovske  godine,  1956-1958.  Belgrade:  Jugo- 
slovenska  revija,  1984. 

 Moskovske  godine,  1969-1971.  Belgrade:  Jugoslovenska  revi- 
ja, 1984. 

Omrcanin,  Ivo.  Diplomatic  and  Political  History  of  Croatia.  Philadel- 
phia: Dorrance,  1972. 

Pipa,  Arshi.  "The  Other  Albania:  A  Balkan  Perspective."  Pages 
164-73  in  Arshi  Pipa  and  Sami  Repishti  (eds.),  Studies  on  Koso- 
va.  Boulder,  Colorado:  East  European  Monographs,  1984. 

Pipa,  Arshi,  and  Sami  Repishti  (eds.).  Studies  on  Kosova.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  East  European  Monographs,  1984. 

Popovic,  Nenad.  Yugoslavia:  The  New  Class  in  Crisis.  Syracuse,  New 
York:  Syracuse  University  Press,  1968. 

Remington,  Robin  Alison.  "Nation  Versus  Class  in  Yugoslavia," 
Current  History,  86,  No.  11,  November  1987,  365-68,  386-87. 

Roberts,  Allen.  The  Turning  Point:  The  Assassination  of  Louis  Barthou  and 
King  Alexander  I  of  Yugoslavia.  New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1970. 

Rogel,  Carole.  The  Slovenes  and  Yugoslavism,  1890-1914.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  East  European  Quarterly,  1977. 

Rostovzeff,  M.  Rome.  Oxford:  Oxford  University  Press,  1960. 

Rothenberg,  Gunther.  The  Military  Border  in  Croatia,  1740-1881. 
Chicago:  University  of  Chicago  Press,  1966. 

Rusinow,  Dennison.  The  Yugoslav  Experiment,  1948-1974.  Berkeley: 
University  of  California  Press,  1977. 

Rusinow,  Dennison  (ed.).  Yugoslavia:  A  Fractured  Federalism.  Wash- 
ington: Wilson  Center  Press,  1988. 

Schopflin,  George  (ed.).  The  Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Europe.  New 
York:  Facts  on  File,  1986. 

Seton- Watson,  Robert  William.  The  Southern  Slav  Question.  New 
York:  Howard  Fertig,  1969. 

Sherman,  Laura  Beth.  Fires  on  the  Mountain.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
East  European  Monographs,  1980. 

Singleton,  Fred.  A  Short  History  of  the  Yugoslav  Peoples.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1985. 

 Twentieth-Century  Yugoslavia.  New  York:  Columbia  Univer- 
sity Press,  1976. 

Staar,  Richard  F.  Communist  Regimes  in  Eastern  Europe.  Stanford, 
California:  Hoover  Institution  Press,  1988. 

Stanojevic,  Stanoje.  Istorija  srpskoga  naroda.  Belgrade:  Altera,  1989. 

Stanovicic,  Vojislav.  "History  and  Status  of  Ethnic  Conflicts." 


305 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

Pages  23-40  in  Dennison  Rusinow  (ed.),  Yugoslavia:  A  Fractured 
Federalism.  Washington:  Wilson  Center  Press,  1988. 

Stokes,  Gale.  "The  Role  of  the  Yugoslav  Committee  in  the  For- 
mation of  Yugoslavia."  Pages  51-65  in  Dimitrije  Djordjevic 
(ed.),  The  Creation  of  Yugoslavia,  1914-1918.  Santa  Barbara, 
California:  Clio  Books,  1980. 

Sulimirski,  Tadeusz.  The  Sarmatians.  New  York:  Praeger,  1970. 

"Sarmatians  in  the  Polish  Past,"  The  Polish  Review,  9,  No. 
1,  Winter  1964,  13-66. 

Toynbee,  Arnold.  Constantine  Porphyrogenitus  and  His  World.  Lon- 
don: Oxford  University  Press,  1973. 

Trifunovic,  Lazar.  Yugoslavia  from  Prehistory  to  the  Present  Day:  Monu- 
ments of  Art.  Belgrade:  Jugoslovenska  knjiga,  1988. 

Ulam,  Adam.  Titoism  and  the  Cominform.  Cambridge:  Harvard 
University  Press,  1952. 

United  Kingdom.  Admiralty.  Naval  Intelligence  Division.  Yugo- 
slavia, 2:  History,  Peoples,  and  Administration.  London:  1944. 

Vasiliev,  A.  A.  History  of  the  Byzantine  Empire.  Madison:  University 
of  Wisconsin  Press,  1952. 

Vucinic,  Wayne.  "The  Formation  of  Yugoslavia."  Pages  184-95 
in  Dimitrije  Djordjevic  (ed.),  The  Creation  of  Yugoslavia, 
1914-1918.  Santa  Barbara,  California:  Clio  Books,  1980. 

West,  Rebecca.  Black  Lamb  and  Grey  Falcon.  New  York:  Viking  Press, 
1943. 

Williams,  Stephen.  Diocletian  and  the  Roman  Recovery.  New  York: 
Methuen,  1985. 

Wolff,  Robert  Lee.  The  Balkans  in  Our  Time.  Cambridge:  Harvard 
University  Press,  1956. 


Chapter  2 

Albert,  Hartmut.  "Kosovo  1979,  Albania  1980."  Pages  103-21 
in  Arshi  Pipa  and  Sami  Repishti  (eds.),  Studies  on  Kosova.  Boul- 
der, Colorado:  East  European  Monographs,  1984. 

Alexander,  Stella.  Church  and  State  in  Yugoslavia  since  1945.  Cam- 
bridge: Cambridge  University  Press,  1973. 

Auty,  Phyllis.  "Yugoslavia:  Introduction."  Pages  283-93  in  G.F. 
Cushing  et  al.  (eds.),  Contrasts  in  Emerging  Societies:  Readings  in 
the  Social  and  Economic  History  of  South- Eastern  Europe.  London:  Ath- 
lone  Press  for  the  University  of  London,  1965. 

Banac,  Ivo.  The  National  Question  in  Yugoslavia:  Origins,  History, 
Politics.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press,  1988. 

Bartl,  Peter.  "Kosovo  and  Macedonia  as  Reflected  in  Ecclesiastical 


306 


Bibliography 


Reports."  Pages  23-40  in  Arshi  Pipa  and  Sami  Repishti  (eds.), 
Studies  on  Kosova.  Boulder,  Colorado:  East  European  Mono- 
graphs, 1984. 

Basta-Nadaski,  Ljubica.  "Women's  Maternity  Health  Care  and 
Welfare,  1976-86,"  Yugoslav  Survey  [Belgrade],  29,  No.  3,  1988, 
145-54. 

Becin,  Aleksandar,  and  Milosav  Milosavljevic.  "Social  Work 
Centres,"  Yugoslav  Survey  [Belgrade],  28,  No.  1,  1987,  117-34. 

Blagojevic,  Dusan,  and  Dragoljub  Vujica  (eds.).  Moslems  in  Yu- 
goslavia. Belgrade:  Review  of  International  Affairs,  1985. 

Bogavac,  Snezana.  "Jugosloveni,  napolje?"  Borba  [Belgrade],  June 
30-July  1,  1990,  6. 

Breznik,  Dusan.  "The  Population  of  Kosovo,"  Yugoslav  Survey  [Bel- 
grade], 30,  No.  4,  1989,  3-28. 

Breznik,  Dusan,  and  Nada  Raduski.  "The  Economic  and  Profes- 
sional Composition  of  the  Labor  Force,  1961-1981,"  Yugoslav 
Survey  [Belgrade],  29,  No.  3,  1988,  3-24. 

Burg,  Steven  L.  Conflict  and  Cohesion  in  Socialist  Yugoslavia.  Prince- 
ton: Princeton  University  Press,  1983. 

Celic,  Dzemal.  "Islam  and  the  Cultural  Heritage  of  Yugoslavia." 
Pages  47-62  in  Dusan  Blagojevic  and  Dragoljub  Vujica  (eds.), 
Moslems  in  Yugoslavia.  Belgrade:  Review  of  International  Affairs, 
1985. 

Cerovic,  Z.  "Reke  teku  uzalud,"  Borba  [Belgrade],  May  8,  1990,  9. 

Cohen,  Leonard,  and  Paul  Warwick.  Political  Cohesion  in  a  Fragile 
Mosaic.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1983. 

Cushing,  G.F.,  et  al.  (eds.).  Contrasts  in  Emerging  Societies:  Readings 
in  the  Social  and  Economic  History  of  South- Eastern  Europe.  London: 
Athlone  Press  for  the  University  of  London,  1965. 

Dempsey,  Judy.  "Religion  in  the  Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Eu- 
rope." Pages  583-89  in  George  Schopflin  (ed.),  The  Soviet  Un- 
ion and  Eastern  Europe.  New  York:  Facts  on  File,  1986. 

Denitch,  Bogdan.  "Yugoslavia:  The  Limits  of  Reform:  Econom- 
ic Crisis,  Nationalism,  Inner  Strife,"  Dissent,  36,  Winter  1989, 
78-85. 

Djurdjic,  Rajko.  "U  Skupstini,"  Nin  [Belgrade],  No.  2053,  May 
6,  1990,  22. 

Doder,  Dusko.  The  Yugoslavs.  New  York:  Vintage,  1979. 

Ducellier,  Alain.  "Genesis  and  Failure  of  the  Albanian  State  in 
the  Fourteenth  and  Fifteenth  Centuries."  Pages  3-22  in  Arshi 
Pipa  and  Sami  Repishti  (eds.),  Studies  on  Kosova.  Boulder,  Colora- 
do: East  European  Monographs,  1984. 

Durakovic,  Nijaz.  "National  Question  of  Moslems  in  Yugoslavia." 
Pages  21-46  in  Dusan  Blagojevic  and  Dragoljub  Vujica  (eds.), 


307 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Moslems  in  Yugoslavia.  Belgrade:  Review  of  International  Affairs, 
1985. 

Filipovic,  Nedim.  "Forming  of  Moslem  Ethnicon  in  Bosnia  and 
Hercegovina."  Pages  1-20  in  Dusan  Blagojevic  and  Dragoljub 
Vujica  (eds.),  Moslems  in  Yugoslavia.  Belgrade:  Review  of  Inter- 
national Affairs,  1985. 

Gapic,  Marija.  "Pension  and  Disability  Insurance  of  Farmers," 
Yugoslav  Survey  [Belgrade],  28,  No.  4,  1987,  135-44. 

Grozdanic,  Sulejman,  and  Srdjan  Jankovic.  "Literature  of  the  Mos- 
lems of  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  in  Oriental  Languages."  Pages 
63-75  in  Dusan  Blagojevic  and  Dragoljub  Vujica  (eds.),  Mos- 
lems in  Yugoslavia.  Belgrade:  Review  of  International  Affairs,  1985. 

Halpern,  Joel  M.  A  Serbian  Village.  New  York:  Harper  and  Row, 
1967. 

"Higher  Education  and  Doctorates  Conferred,"  Yugoslav  Survey 
[Belgrade],  30,  No.  1,  1988,  157-60. 

Jancar,  Barbara.  "Environmental  Protection:  The  Tragedy  of  the 
Republics."  Pages  224-45  in  Pedro  Ramet  (ed.),  Yugoslavia  in 
the  1980s.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

 "The  New  Feminism  in  Yugoslavia."  Pages  201-23  in 

Pedro  Ramet  (ed.),  Yugoslavia  in  the  1980s.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1985. 

Joncic,  Koca.  Nationalities  in  Yugoslavia.  Belgrade:  Jugoslavenska 
stvarnost — medjunarodna  politika,  1982. 

Jovanovic,  Dragan.  "Demonstracija  je,  ipak,  bilo,"  Borba  [Bel- 
grade], May  8,  1990,  9. 

Jovanovic,  M.  "Conservative  Peasants."  Pages  307-13  in  G.F. 
Cushing  et  al.  (eds.),  Contrasts  in  Emerging  Societies:  Readings  in 
the  Social  and  Economic  History  of  South- Eastern  Europe.  London:  Ath- 
lone  Press  for  the  University  of  London,  1965. 

Jovicic,  Vladimir  (ed.).  Serbia.  Belgrade:  Jugoslovenska  revija,  1982. 

Karadzic,  Vuk.  "The  Peasant  Nation."  Pages  296-99  in  G.F. 
Cushing  et  al.  (eds.),  Contrasts  in  Emerging  Societies:  Readings  in 
the  Social  and  Economic  History  of  South- Eastern  Europe.  London:  Ath- 
lone  Press  for  the  University  of  London,  1965. 

Klancir,  Djurdjica.  "Tiha,  prljava rabota,"  Danas  [Ljubljana],  No. 
415,  January  30,  1990,  74-5. 

Logoreci,  Anton.  "A  Clash  Between  Two  Nationalities  in  Koso- 
vo." Pages  185-94  in  Arshi  Pipa  and  Sami  Repishti  (eds.),  Studies 
on  Kosova.  Boulder,  Colorado:  East  European  Monographs,  1984. 

Macura,  Milos.  "The  Problem  of  Natality  in  Kosovo."  Pages 
190-97  in  Ranko  Petkovic  (ed.),  Kosovo:  Past  and  Present.  Bel- 
grade: Review  of  International  Affairs,  1989. 


308 


Bibliography 


Milacic,  Tomislav  (ed.).  Handbook  on  Yugoslavia.  Belgrade:  Feder- 
al Secretariat  of  Information,  1987. 

Miljka,  Dusan.  "Hoce  li  papa  kleknuti  u  Jasenovcu,"  Nin  [Bel- 
grade], No.  2053,  May  6,  1990,  9-11. 

Miljkovic,  Dusan  (ed.).  Jugoslavia,  1945-1985.  Belgrade:  Savez- 
ni  zavod  za  statistiku,  1986. 

Miller,  Robert  F.  "Church  and  State  in  Yugoslavia:  Exorcising 
the  Spectre  of  'Clerico-Nationalism',"  South  Slav  Journal  [Lon- 
don], 10,  Summer  1987,  9-29. 

Milosavljevic,  Milosav.  "Social  Welfare,  1974-1986,"  Yugoslav  Sur- 
vey [Belgrade],  29,  No.  3,  1988,  119-44. 

Nikolic,  Milenko,  and  Tomislav  Bogavac.  Educational  Policy  in  Yu- 
goslavia. Belgrade:  Jugoslovenska  stvarnost,  1980. 

Obradovic,  Josip.  "Socijalna  struktura  i  obrazovna  reforma,"  So- 
ciologija  [Belgrade],  25,  No.  4,  October-December  1983,  397-417. 

Palosevic,  Abidin.  "Agricultural  Land,"  Yugoslav  Survey  [Belgrade], 
29,  No.  3,  1988,  59-70. 

 "Land  Policy,"  Yugoslav  Survey  [Belgrade],  30,  No.  1,  1989, 

79-93. 

Penev,  Goran,  and  Nada  Raduski.  "The  Non- Agricultural  Popu- 
lation," Yugoslav  Survey  [Belgrade],  28,  No.  3,  1987,  3-24. 

"Penzija  za  sve  zemljoradnike,"  Bilten  za  akreditovane  novinare  [Bel- 
grade], No.  20,  April  4,  1990,  6. 

Perovic,  Marina  (ed.).  Tanjug  International  Press  Center  Handbook, 
1989-1990.  Belgrade:  Tanjug  International  Press  Center,  1989. 

Petkovic,  Ranko  (ed.).  Kosovo:  Past  and  Present.  Belgrade:  Review 
of  International  Affairs,  1989. 

Petranovic,  Branko,  and  Momcilo  Zecevic.Jugoslovenskifederalizam: 
ideje  i  stvarnost,  2.  Belgrade:  Prosveta,  1987. 

Petrovic,  Ruza,  and  Marina  Blagojevic.  "Migrations  of  Serbs  and 
Montenegrins  from  Kosovo  and  Metohija,"  Pages  258-69  in 
Ranko  Petkovic  (ed.),  Kosovo:  Past  and  Present.  Belgrade:  Review 
of  International  Affairs,  1989. 

 Seobe  Srba  i  Crnogoraca  sa  Kosova  i  iz  Metohije.  Belgrade: 

Srpska  akademija  nauka  i  umetnosti,  1989. 

Pipa,  Arshi.  "The  Other  Albania:  A  Balkan  Perspective."  Pages 
239-55  in  Arshi  Pipa  and  Sami  Repishti  (eds.),  Studies  on  Koso- 
va. Boulder,  Colorado:  East  European  Monographs,  1984. 

 "The  Political  Situation  of  the  Albanians  in  Yugoslavia 

with  Particular  Attention  to  the  Kosovo  Problem, ' '  East  Europe- 
an Quarterly,  23,  No.  2,  June  1989,  159-81. 

Pipa,  Arshi,  and  Sami  Repishti  (eds.).  Studies  on  Kosova.  Boulder, 
Colorado:  East  European  Monographs,  1984. 


309 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Pizurica,  Olga.  "Educational-Pedagogical  Service,"  Yugoslav  Sur- 
vey [Belgrade],  28,  No.  1,  1987,  109-16. 

Pocek,  Branko.  "Disability  Insurance  Benefits,  1980-85,"  Yugo- 
slav Survey  [Belgrade],  27,  No.  3,  1986,  143-49. 

 "Inpatient  Health  Care,"  Yugoslav  Survey  [Belgrade],  27, 

No.  3,  1986,  149-54. 

Popovic,  Bozidar.  "The  Housing  Policy  and  Housing,"  Yugoslav 
Survey  [Belgrade],  29,  No.  3,  1988,  89-118. 

Potkonjak,  Nikola.  "Elementary  and  Secondary  School  Teachers," 
Yugoslav  Survey  [Belgrade],  30,  No.  1,  1989,  112-18. 

 "Secondary  Education,"  Yugoslav  Survey  [Belgrade],  27, 

No.  3,  1986,  111-42. 

Prifti,  Peter.  "Kosovo's  Economy:  Problems  and  Prospects."  Pages 
125-61  in  Arshi  Pipa  and  Sami  Repishti  (eds.),  Studies  on  Koso- 
va.  Boulder,  Colorado:  East  European  Monographs,  1984. 

Radivojevic,  Biljana.  "Mortality,"  Yugoslav  Survey  [Belgrade],  30, 
No.  1,  1989,  67-78. 

Ramet,  Pedro.  Nationalism  and  Federalism  in  Yugoslavia,  1963-1983. 
Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1984. 

 .  "The  Rock  Scene  in  Yugoslavia,"  Eastern  European  Poli- 
tics and  Societies,  2,  Spring  1988,  396-410. 

 "Yugoslavia  1987:  Stirrings  from  Below,"  South  Slav  Journal 

[London],  10,  Fall  1987,  21-35. 

Ramet,  Pedro  (ed.).  Yugoslavia  in  the  1980s.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1985. 

Rapi,  Djerdj.  "Promene  u  strukturi  porodice  na  selu  u  SAR  Koso- 
vo," Sociologija  sela  [Belgrade],  24,  Nos.  91-94,  1986,  79-93. 

Remington,  Robin  Alison.  "Nation  Versus  Class  in  Yugoslavia," 
Current  History,  86,  No.  11,  November  1987,  365-68,  386-87. 

Repishti,  Sami.  "The  Evolution  of  Kosova's  Autonomy."  Pages 
195-232  in  Arshi  Pipa  and  Sami  Repishti  (eds.),  Studies  on  Koso- 
va.  Boulder,  Colorado:  East  European  Monographs,  1984. 

Rothschild,  Joseph.  East  Central  Europe  Between  the  Two  World  Wars. 
Seattle:  University  of  Washington  Press,  1974. 

Rusinow,  Dennison.  The  Yugoslav  Experiment,  1948-1974.  Berkeley: 
University  of  California  Press,  1977. 

Rusinow,  Dennison  (ed.).  Yugoslavia:  A  Fractured  Federalism.  Wash- 
ington: Wilson  Center  Press,  1988. 

Samardzic,  Radovan.  Religious  Communities  in  Yugoslavia.  Belgrade: 
Jugoslovenska  stvarnost,  1981. 

Schopflin,  George  (ed.).  The  Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Europe.  New 
York:  Facts  on  File,  1986. 

Sekelj,  Laslo.  "Yugoslavia:  A  Party  State  in  Crisis,"  Studies  of  Com- 
parative Communism,  21,  Fall-Winter  1988,  389-98. 


310 


Bibliography 


Seroka,  Jim.  "Contemporary  Issues  and  Stability  in  Socialist  Yugo- 
slavia, ' '  Journal  of  Communist  Studies,  2 ,  No .  6 ,  June  1 986 ,127 -44 . 

Seroka,  Jim,  and  Vukasin  Pavlovic.  "Yugoslav  Trade  Unions  and 
the  Paralysis  of  Political  Decision-Making,"  Eastern  European 
Politics  and  Societies,  1 ,  Spring  1987,  277-94. 

Shoup,  Paul.  "The  Government  and  Constitutional  Status  of  Koso- 
va:  Some  Brief  Remarks."  Pages  233-38  in  Arshi  Pipa  and  Sami 
Repeshti  (eds.),  Studies  on  Kosova.  Boulder,  Colorado:  East  Eu- 
ropean Monographs,  1984. 

Simic,  Snezana,  et  al.  (eds.).  "Assessment  of  the  Effects  of  Cost- 
Sharing  in  Yugoslavia,"  Medical  Care  [Belgrade],  26,  February 
1988,  148-58. 

Simonovic,  Ivan.  "Socialism,  Federalism,  and  Ethnic  Identity." 
Pages  41-57  in  Dennison  Rusinow  (ed.),  Yugoslavia:  A  Fractured 
Federalism.  Washington:  Wilson  Center  Press,  1988. 

Singleton,  Fred.  Twentieth- Century  Yugoslavia.  New  York:  Colum- 
bia University  Press,  1976. 

Sirotic,  Sonja.  "Basic  Indexes  of  Household  Conditions,"  Yugo- 

v  slav  Survey  [Belgrade],  28,  No.  4,  1987,  75-84. 

Skrlj,  M.  "Programme  Base  for  the  Prevention  of  Drug  Abuse  in 
Yugoslavia,"  Bulletin  on  Narcotics  [Belgrade],  38,  January /June 
1986,  105-12. 

Srdjic-Djakovic,  Ljubica.  "Repatriation  of  Yugoslav  Migrant  Work- 
ers," Yugoslav  Survey  [Belgrade],  28,  No.  2,  1987,  3-12. 

Stanovcic,  Vojislav.  "History  and  Status  of  Ethnic  Conflicts." 
Pages  23-40  in  Dennison  Rusinow  (ed.),  Yugoslavia:  A  Fractured 
Federalism.  Washington:  Wilson  Center  Press,  1988. 

Stipetic,  Vladimir.  Yugoslavia's  Agriculture,  1945-1975.  Belgrade: 
Socialist  Thought  and  Practice,  1975. 

Stoianovich,  Traian.  A  Study  in  Balkan  Civilization.  New  York: 
Knopf,  1967. 

Stojakov,  Svetislav.  "Ten  Years  of  the  Changes  in  Education  and 
Upbringing,"  Socialist  Thought  and  Practice,  25,  May  1985,  58-72. 

Tkalac,  I.  "Feudal  Conditions  in  Croatia."  Pages  329-30  in  G.F. 
Cushing  et  al.  (eds.),  Contrasts  in  Emerging  Societies:  Readings  in 
the  Social  and  Economic  History  of  South-Eastern  Europe.  London:  Ath- 
lone  Press  for  the  University  of  London,  1965. 

"Tko  izazava  'sveti  rat?'  "  Glas  koncila  [Zagreb],  April  22,  1990,  2. 

Todorovic,  Gordana.  "Basic  Population  Projections  by  Age  and 
Sex,  1981-2021,"  Yugoslav  Survey  [Belgrade],  28,  No.  2,  1987, 
13-24. 

Tome,  Gregor.  "Classes,  Party  Elites,  and  Ethnic  Groups."  Pages 
59-77  in  Dennison  Rusinow  (ed.),  Yugoslavia:  A  Fractured  Feder- 
alism. Washington:  Wilson  Center  Press,  1988. 


311 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


"Uskrsnuce  Uskrsa,"  Glas  koncila  [Zagreb],  April  22,  1990,  1-4. 
Van  der  Voort,  Theodore.  " Orthodoxy  in  Serbia,"  Frontier, 

March- April  1988,  8-11. 
Wilkinson,  John  Gardner.  ' 'Village  Life  and  Trade."  Pages  366-71 

in  G.F.  Cushing  et  al.  (eds.),  Contrasts  in  Emerging  Societies:  Readings 

in  the  Social  and  Economic  History  of  South- Eastern  Europe.  London: 

Athlone  Press  for  the  University  of  London,  1965. 
Wolff,  Robert  Lee.  The  Balkans  in  Our  Time.  Cambridge:  Harvard 

University  Press,  1956. 
Woodward,  Susan  L.  "Reforming  a  Socialist  State:  Ideology  and 

Public  Finance  in  Yugoslavia,"  World  Politics,  61,  January  1989, 

267-305. 

Yugoslavia.  Savezni  zavod  za  statistiku.  Statisticki  godinjak  Jugo- 
slavije,  1988.  Belgrade:  1989. 

 Savezni  zavod  za  statistiku.  Statisticki godisnjak  Jugoslavije, 

1989.  Belgrade:  1990. 

Zimmerman,  William.  Politics  and  Culture  in  Yugoslavia.  Ann  Ar- 
bor: Center  for  Political  Studies,  Institute  for  Social  Research, 
University  of  Michigan,  1987. 

Chapter  3 

"Acceleration  of  Inflation  into  Hyperinflation:  The  Yugoslav  Ex- 
perience in  the  1980s,"  Economic  Analysis  and  Workers'  Manage- 
ment, No.  21,  1987. 

Alton,  Thad  P. ,  et  al.  Occasional  Papers  Nos.  105-109  of  the  Research 
Project  on  National  Income  in  East  Central  Europe.  New  York:  LW 
International  Financial  Research,  1989. 

Artisien,  Patrick.  "Joint  Venturing  in  Yugoslavia:  Twenty  Years 
of  Liberalization,"  Multinational  Business  [London],  Autumn 
1987,  12-24. 

Babic,  Mate,  and  Emil  Primorac.  "Some  Causes  of  the  Growth 
of  the  Yugoslav  External  Debt,"  Soviet  Studies  [Glasgow],  38, 
No.  1,  January  1986,  69-88. 

Bajt,  A.  "Trends  and  Cycles  in  the  Yugoslav  Stabilization,"  Est- 
Ouest  [Trieste],  No.  4,  1985. 

"Better  Year  Forecast  for  Yugoslavia,"  Motor  Ship  [Surrey,  Unit- 
ed Kingdom],  69,  September  1988,  82-86. 

Bicanic,  Ivo.  "Fractured  Economy."  Pages  120-55  in  Dennison 
Rusinow  (ed.),  Yugoslavia:  A  Fractured  Federalism.  Washington: 
Wilson  Center  Press,  1988. 

Bukowski,  Charles  J.  "Politics  and  Prospects  for  Economic  Re- 
form in  Yugoslavia,"  Eastern  European  Politics  and  Societies,  2, 
Winter  1988,  94-114. 


312 


Bibliography 


Bukowski,  Charles  J.,  and  Mark  A.  Cichock  (eds.).  Prospects  for 
Change  in  Socialist  Systems.  New  York:  Praeger,  1987. 

Burkett,  John  P.  "Stabilization  Measures  in  Yugoslavia:  An  Assess- 
ment of  the  Proposals  of  Yugoslavia's  Commission  for  Problems 
of  Economic  Stabilization."  Pages  561-74  in  United  States  Con- 
gress, 99th,  2d  Session,  Joint  Economic  Committee,  East  Euro- 
pean Economies:  Slow  Growth  in  the  1980s.  (Country  Studies  on 
Eastern  Europe  and  Yugoslavia,  3.)  Washington:  GPO,  1986. 

Burkett,  John  P.,  and  Borislav  Skegro.  "Are  Economic  Fractures 
Widening? "Pages  142-55  in  Dennison  Rusinow  (ed.),  Yugosla- 
via: A  Fractured  Federalism.  Washington:  Wilson  Center  Press,  1988. 

Chernyshev,  V.  "Ekonomika  Yugoslavii  v  80-e  gody:  problemy 
razvitiia,"  Voprosy  ekonomiki  [Moscow],  No.  11,  1989,  108-16. 

Cochrane,  Nancy  J.  "Yugoslav  Agricultural  Performance  in  the 
1980s  and  Prospects  for  1990."  Pages  575-94  in  United  States 
Congress,  99th,  2d  Session,  Joint  Economic  Committee,  East 
European  Economies:  Slow  Growth  in  the  1980s.  (Country  Studies 
on  Eastern  Europe  and  Yugoslavia,  3.)  Washington:  GPO,  1986. 

"A  Convertible  Dinar  Is  Just  the  Beginning,"  Bloc,  2,  No.  2, 
April-May  1990,  21. 

Denitch,  Bogdan.  "Yugoslavia,  the  Limits  of  Reform:  Economic 
Crisis,  Nationalism,  Inner  Strife,"  Dissent,  No.  36,  Winter  1989, 
78-85. 

"Economics  Endanger  Bulgaria,  Politics  Endanger  Yugoslavia," 
The  Woodrow  Wilson  Center  Report,  2,  No.  3,  November  1990,  2-3. 

"EFTA  Will  Help  Yugoslavia,"  Vjesnik  [Zagreb],  November  12, 
1989.  Joint  Publications  Research  Service,  East  Europe  Report. 
(FBIS-EEU-89-183.)  January  9,  1990,  6-9. 

The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1990,  2.  London:  Europa,  1990. 

"Foreign  Debt  and  Efforts  to  Increase  Exports,"  South  Slav  Jour- 
nal [London],  April  1988,  87. 

Knyazev,  Yuri.  "A  Convertible  Dinar,"  Business  in  the  USSR 
[Paris],  No.  3,  July- August  1990,  52-53. 

Loncarevic,  Ivan.  "Prices  and  Private  Agriculture  in  Yugoslavia," 
Soviet  Studies  [Glasgow],  39,  No.  4,  October  1987. 

Lydall,  Harold.  Yugoslavia  in  Crisis.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press,  1989. 

 Yugoslav  Socialism:  Theory  and  Practice.  Oxford:  Clarendon 

Press,  1984. 

McFarlane,  Bruce  T.  Yugoslavia:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society.  Lon- 
don: Pinter,  1988. 

Marer,  Paul.  "Economic  Policies  and  Systems  in  Eastern  Europe 
and  Yugoslavia:  Commonalities  and  Differences."  Pages 
595-633  in  United  States  Congress,  99th,  2d  session,  Joint  Eco- 
nomic Committee,  East  European  Economies:  Slow  Growth  in  the 


313 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


1980s.  (Country  Studies  on  Eastern  Europe  and  Yugoslavia,  3.) 
Washington:  GPO,  1986. 

Milivojevic,  Marko.  "Yugoslavia's  Increasing  Economic  Depen- 
dence on  Comecon  in  the  1980s,"  South  Slav  Journal  [London], 
9,  No.  4,  Fall-Winter  1986,  39-51. 

Mirkovic,  Damir.  "Sociological  Reflections  on  Yugoslav  Participa- 
tory Democracy  and  Social  Ownership,"  East  European  Quarter- 
ly, 21,  No.  3,  September  1987,  319-32. 

Peters,  Tim.  "Conflict  Regulation  in  Yugoslavia,"  South  Slav  Journal 
[London],  10,  No.  1,  Spring  1987,  19-24. 

Ramet,  Pedro  (ed.).  Yugoslavia  in  the  1980s.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1985. 

Remington,  Robin  Alison.  "Nation  Versus  Class  in  Yugoslavia," 
Current  History,  86,  No.  11,  November  1987,  365-68,  386-87. 

Robinson,  Sherman,  Laura  D.  Tyson,  and  Mathias  Dewatripont. 
"Yugoslav  Economic  Performance  in  the  1980s:  Alternative 
Scenarios."  Pages  543-60  in  United  States  Congress,  99th,  2d 
Session,  Joint  Economic  Committee,  East  European  Economies:  Slow 
Growth  in  the  1980s.  (Country  Studies  on  Eastern  Europe  and 
Yugoslavia,  3.)  Washington:  GPO,  1986. 

Rusinow,  Dennison.  "Yugoslavia:  Enduring  Crisis  and  Delayed 
Reforms."  Pages  52-69  in  United  States  Congress,  101st,  1st 
Session,  Joint  Economic  Committee,  Pressures  for  Reform  in  the 
East  European  Economies,  2.  Washington:  GPO,  1989. 

Rusinow,  Dennison  (ed.).  Yugoslavia:  A  Fractured  Federalism. 
Washington:  Wilson  Center  Press,  1988. 

Seroka,  Jim.  "Contemporary  Issues  and  Stability  in  Socialist  Yugo- 
slavia, "  Journal  of  Communist  Studies,  2,  No.  6,  June  1986,  128-31. 

Singleton,  Fred.  Twentieth- Century  Yugoslavia.  New  York:  Colum- 
bia University  Press,  1976. 

Singleton,  Fred,  and  Bernard  Carter.  The  Economy  of  Yugoslavia. 
New  York:  St.  Martin's  Press,  1982. 

Staar,  Richard  F.  Communist  Regimes  in  Eastern  Europe.  (5th  ed.)  Stan- 
ford, California:  Hoover  Institution  Press,  1988. 

Stankovic,  Slobodan.  The  End  of  the  Tito  Era:  Yugoslavia's  Dilem- 
mas. Stanford,  California:  Hoover  Institution  Press,  1981. 

"Tito's  Other  Legacy,"  Banker  [London],  139,  June  1989,  74-75. 

United  States.  Congress.  99th,  2d  Session.  Joint  Economic  Com- 
mittee. East  European  Economies:  Slow  Growth  in  the  1980s.  (Country 
Studies  on  Eastern  Europe  and  Yugoslavia,  3.)  Washington: 
GPO,  1986. 

 Congress.  101st,  1st  Session.  Joint  Economic  Commit- 
tee. Pressures  for  Reform  in  the  East  European  Economies,  2.  Washing- 
ton: GPO,  1989. 


314 


Bibliography 


' 'Whether  Darkness  Looms,"  Danas  [Zagreb],  July  25,  1989.  Joint 

Publications  Research  Service,  East  Europe  Report.  (FBIS- 

EEU-90-006.)  September  22,  1989,  26-29. 
Woodward,  Susan  L.  " Reforming  a  Socialist  State:  Ideology  and 

Public  Finance  in  Yugoslavia,"  World  Politics,  61,  January  1989, 

267-305. 

World  Bank.  World  Debt  Tables,  1989-90:  External  Debt  of  Develop- 
ing Countries.  Washington:  1990. 

Yugoslavia.  Savezni  zavod  za  statistiku.  Statisticki  godisnjak  Jugo- 
slavije,  1989.  Belgrade:  1990. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Business  East  Europe;  Ekonomska  politika 
[Belgrade];  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Service,  Daily  Report: 
East  Europe;  Journal  of  Commerce;  Nafta  [Belgrade];  Nepszava 
[Budapest];  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio  Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern 
Europe  [Munich] ;  Wall  Street  Journal;  and  Washington  Post.) 


Chapter  4 

Banac,  Ivo.  The  National  Question  in  Yugoslavia:  Origins,  History, 
Politics.  Ithaca:  Cornell  University  Press,  1984. 

Beloff,  Nora.  "Yugoslavia  and  the  West,"  Est-Ouest  [Trieste],  17, 
No.  4,  1986,  149-67. 

Biberaj,  Elez.  "Yugoslavia:  A  Continuing  Crisis?"  Conflict  Studies 
[London],  225,  October  1989,  1-22. 

Bukowski,  Charles  J.  "Politics  and  Prospects  for  Economic  Re- 
form in  Yugoslavia,"  East  European  Politics  and  Societies,  2,  Winter 
1988,  94-151. 

Bukowski,  Charles  J.,  and  Mark  A.  Cichock  (eds.).  Prospects  for 
Change  in  Socialist  Systems.  New  York:  Praeger,  1987. 

Burg,  Steven  L.  Conflict  and  Cohesion  in  Socialist  Yugoslavia.  Prince- 
ton: Princeton  University  Press,  1983. 

Cviic,  Christopher.  "Religion  and  Nationalism  in  Eastern  Europe: 
The  Case  of  Yugoslavia,"  Millennium,  14,  No.  2,  Summer  1985, 
195-206. 

Denitch,  Bogdan.  "Yugoslavia:  The  Limits  of  Reform:  Econom- 
ic Crisis,  Nationalism,  Inner  Strife,"  Dissent,  36,  Winter  1989, 
78-85. 

Djordjevic,  Jovan  (ed.).  Drustveno-politicki  sistem,  SFRJ.  Belgrade: 
1975. 

Doder,  Dusko.  The  Yugoslavs.  New  York:  Random  House,  1978. 


315 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Gruenwald,  Oskar,  and  Karen  Rosenblum-Cale  (eds.).  Human 
Rights  in  Yugoslavia.  New  York:  Irvington,  1986. 

Jugoslovenski  pregled.  Constitutional  System  of  Yugoslavia.  Belgrade: 
Jugoslovenska  stvarnost,  Jugoslovenski  pregled,  1980. 

Klein,  George,  and  Milan  J.  Reban  (eds.).  The  Politics  of  Ethnicity 
in  Eastern  Europe.  Boulder,  Colorado:  East  European  Mono- 
graphs, 1981. 

Linden,  Ronald  H.  "The  Impact  of  Interdependence:  Yugosla- 
via and  International  Change,"  Comparative  Politics,  18,  No.  1, 
January  1986,  211-34. 

Lydall,  Harold.  Yugoslavia  in  Crisis.  Oxford:  Clarendon  Press,  1989. 

McFarlane,  Bruce  J.  Yugoslavia:  Politics,  Economics,  and  Society.  Lon- 
don: Pinter,  1988. 

Magas,  Branko.  "Yugoslavia:  The  Spectre  of  Balkanization,"  New 
Left  Review  [London],  No.  174,  March-April  1989,  3-31. 

Milivojevic,  Marko.  "Yugoslavia's  Security  Dilemmas  and  the 
West,"  Journal  of  Strategic  Studies,  8,  No.  9,  September  1985, 
284-306. 

Pavlowitch,  Stevan  K.  The  Improbable  Survivor:  Yugoslavia  and  Its 
Problems,  1918-1988.  Columbus:  Ohio  State  University  Press, 
1988. 

Pipa,  Arshi.  "The  Political  Situation  of  the  Albanians  in  Yugo- 
slavia with  Particular  Attention  to  the  Kosovo  Problem:  A  Critical 
Approach,"  East  European  Quarterly,  23,  No.  2,  June  1989, 
159-81. 

Ramet,  Pedro.  "The  Limits  of  Political  Change  in  a  Communist 
Country:  The  Yugoslav  Debate,  1980-1986,"  Crossroads,  3,  No. 
23,  November  1987,  67-79. 

 .   Nationalism  and  Federalism  in   Yugoslavia,  1963-1983. 

Bloomington:  Indiana  University  Press,  1984. 

Ramet,  Pedro  (ed.).  Yugoslavia  in  the  1980s.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1985. 

Remington,  Robin  Alison.  "Nation  Versus  Class  in  Yugoslavia," 
Current  History,  86,  No.  11,  November  1987,  365-68,  386-87. 

Rusinow,  Dennison  (ed.).  Yugoslavia:  A  Fractured  Federalism. 
Washington:  Wilson  Center  Press,  1988. 

Sekelj,  Laslo.  "The  Communist  League  of  Yugoslavia:  Elite  of 
Power  or  Consciousness?"  Socialism  and  Democracy,  6,  Spring- 
Summer  1988,  115-34. 

Seroka,  Jim.  "Contemporary  Issues  and  Stability  in  Socialist  Yu- 
goslavia," Journal  of  Communist  Studies,  2,  No.  6,  June  1986, 
127-44. 

 "Prognosis  for  Political  Stability  in  Yugoslavia  in  the  Post- 
Tito  Era,"  East  European  Quarterly,  22,  No.  2,  June  1988,  173-90. 


316 


Bibliography 


Seroka,  Jim,  and  Vukasin  Pavlovic.  "Yugoslav  Trade  Unions  and 
the  Paralysis  of  Political  Decision-Making,"  Eastern  European 
Politics  and  Societies,  1,  Spring  1987,  277-94. 

Singleton,  Fred.  A  Short  History  of  the  Yugoslav  Peoples.  Cambridge: 
Cambridge  University  Press,  1985. 

Smiljkovic,  Rados.  Interesi  i politicize  akcije  u  samoupravljanju.  Belgrade: 
Naucna  knjiga,  1987. 

Sruk,  Josip.  Ustavno  uredjenje,  SFRJ.  Zagreb:  Informator,  1976. 

Staar,  Richard  F.  Communist  Regimes  in  Eastern  Europe.  (5th  ed.)  Stan- 
ford, California:  Hoover  Institution  Press,  1988. 

Yugoslavia.  The  Constitution  of  the  Socialist  Federal  Republic  of  Yugo- 
slavia. Belgrade:  Dopisna  delavska  univerza,  1974. 

Zaninovich,  M.  George.  "A  Prognosis  for  Yugoslavia,"  Current 
History,  88,  No.  11,  November  1989,  393-96,  404-405. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Ser- 
vice, Daily  Report:  East  Europe;  New  York  Times;  Radio  Free  Eu- 
rope/Radio Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich];  South  Slav 
Journal;  and  Washington  Post.) 


Chapter  5 

Amnesty  International.  Yugoslavia:  Prisoners  of  Conscience.  London: 
1982. 

Bebler,  Anton.  "Yugoslavia's  Positions  and  Policies  on  Arms  Con- 
trol and  Disarmament,"  International  Spectator  [Rome],  24,  No. 
2,  April-June  1989,  94-101. 

Clare,  Joseph  F. ,  Jr.  "Whither  the  Third  World  Arms  Producers?" 
Pages  23-28  in  United  States,  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament 
Agency,  World  Military  Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1986. 
Washington:  GPO,  1987. 

"Defense  School:  The  Yugoslav  Armed  Forces — Bulwark  of  Our 
Defense,"  Front  [Belgrade],  November  28,  1980.  Joint  Publica- 
tions Research  Service,  Translations  on  East  Europe:  Political,  So- 
ciological, and  Military  Affairs.  February  4,  1981,  44. 

The  Europa  World  Year  Book,  1988,  2.  London:  Europa,  1988. 

Horhager,  Axel.  "Yugoslavia's  Defense:  The  Logic  of  Politics," 
International  Defense  Review,  9,  October  1976,  733-38. 

Ilijev,  Bogoljub.  "Yugoslavia's  Contribution  to  the  Victory  over 
Fascism,"  Socialist  Thought  and  Practice,  20,  July- August  1980, 
53-67. 


317 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Jane's  All  the  World's  Aircraft,  1989-90.  (Ed. ,  John  W.R.  Taylor.) 
Surrey,  United  Kingdom:  Jane's  Information  Group,  1990. 

Jane's  Armour  and  Artillery,  1987-88.  (Ed.,  Christopher  F.  Foss.)  Lon- 
don: Jane's,  1987. 

Jane's  Fighting  Ships,  1989-90.  (Ed.,  Richard  Sharpe.)  Surrey,  Unit- 
ed Kingdom:  Jane's  Information  Group,  1990. 

Jane's  Infantry  Weapons,  1989-90.  (Ed.,  Ian  V.  Hogg).  Surrey,  Unit- 
ed Kingdom:  Jane's  Information  Group,  1989. 

Karber,  Phillip  A.,  and  Jon  L.  Lellenberg.  "Yugoslav  Security 
after  Tito,"  Strategic  Review,  8,  Spring  1980,  44-58. 

The  Military  Balance,  1989-1990.  London:  International  Institute 
for  Strategic  Studies,  1989. 

Milivojevic,  Marko.  "Yugoslavia's  Security  Dilemmas  and  the 
West ,"  Journal  of  Strategic  Studies,  8,  September  1985,  284-306. 

 "The  Yugoslav  People's  Army,"  Armed  Forces,  6,  1987, 

15-19. 

 .  "The  Yugoslav  People's  Army:  Another  J  aruzelski  on  the 

Way?"  South  Slav  Journal  [London],  11,  Summer- Autumn  1988, 
1-18. 

Milivojevic,  Marko  (ed.).  Yugoslavia's  Security  Dilemmas.  New  York: 
St.  Martin's  Press,  1988. 

Miller,  Morton  S.  "Conventional  Arms  Trade  in  the  Developing 
World,  1976-86:  Reflections  on  a  Decade."  Pages  19-24  in  United 
States,  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency,  World  Military 
Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1988.  Washington:  GPO,  1989. 

Ramet,  Pedro.  "Yugoslavia  and  the  Threat  of  Internal  and  Ex- 
ternal Discontents,"  Orbis,  28,  Spring  1984,  103-21. 

Ramet,  Pedro  (ed.).  Yugoslavia  in  the  1980s.  Boulder,  Colorado: 
Westview  Press,  1985. 

Rawleigh,  G.  "Yugoslavia/France:  Supersonic  Combat  Aircraft," 
FBIS  Science  and  Technology  Perspectives,  5,  No.  5,  May  31,  1990, 
7-8. 

Remington,  Robin  Alison.  "Political-Military  Relations  in  Post- 
Tito  Yugoslavia."  Pages  56-75  in  Pedro  Ramet  (ed.),  Yugosla- 
via in  the  1980s.  Boulder,  Colorado:  Westview  Press,  1985. 

Roberts,  Walter  R.  Tito,  Mihailovic,  and  the  Allies,  1941-1945. 
Durham,  North  Carolina:  Duke  University  Press,  1987. 

Snitch,  Thomas  H.  "East  European  Involvement  in  the  World's 
Arms  Market."  Pages  117-21  in  United  States,  Arms  Control 
and  Disarmament  Agency,  World  Military  Expenditures  and  Arms 
Transfers,  1972-1982.  Washington:  GPO,  1984. 

United  States.  Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Mili- 
tary Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1972-1982.  Washington: 
GPO,  1984. 


318 


Bibliography 


 Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Military 

Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1986.  Washington:  GPO,  1987. 
 Arms  Control  and  Disarmament  Agency.  World  Military 

Expenditures  and  Arms  Transfers,  1988.  Washington:  GPO,  1989. 
Vego,  Milan  N.  "The  Yugoslav  Ground  Forces:  A  Look  at  the 

Past  and  the  Present,"  Military  Review,  60,  November  1980, 

14-27. 

 "The  Yugoslavian  Navy:  A  Critical  Review,"  United  States 

Naval  Institute  Proceedings,  104,  September  1978,  127-33. 

Yugoslavia.  The  Constitution  of  the  Socialist  Federal  Republic  of  Yugo- 
slavia. Belgrade:  Dopisna  delavska  univerza,  1974. 

(Various  issues  of  the  following  periodicals  were  also  used  in  the 
preparation  of  this  chapter:  Foreign  Broadcast  Information  Ser- 
vice, Daily  Report:  East  Europe;  and  Radio  Free  Europe/Radio 
Liberty,  Report  on  Eastern  Europe  [Munich].) 


319 


Glossary 


Cetnik  (pi.,  Cetnici) — Name  derived  from  the  Serbian  word  for 
detachment;  in  full,  Cetnik  Detachments  of  the  Yugoslav  Army 
of  the  Fatherland.  Given  to  several  Serbian  resistance  groups 
in  World  War  II  organized  to  oppose  occupying  Nazis  and 
Croatian  collaborators.  Avoiding  large-scale  conflict  with  the 
invaders,  the  Cetnici  mostly  fought  the  communist  Partisans 
(q.v.)  of  Josip  Broz  Tito.  The  most  important  Cetnik  group 
was  led  by  Draza  Mihajlovic. 

collectivization  of  agriculture — The  process  of  imposing  state  control 
of  agriculture  by  forming  privately  held  land  into  socially  owned 
and  managed  farms. 

Comecon  (Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance) — A  multilater- 
al economic  alliance  headquartered  in  Moscow.  Members  in 
1990  included  Bulgaria,  Cuba,  Czechoslovakia,  the  German 
Democratic  Republic  (East  Germany),  Hungary,  Mongolia, 
Poland,  Romania,  the  Soviet  Union,  and  Vietnam.  Also 
referred  to  as  CMEA  or  CEMA. 

Cominform  (Communist  Information  Bureau) — An  internation- 
al communist  organization  (1947-56)  including  the  communist 
parties  of  Bulgaria,  Czechoslovakia,  France,  Hungary,  Italy, 
Poland,  Romania,  the  Soviet  Union,  and  Yugoslavia  (expelled 
in  1948).  Formed  on  Soviet  initiative,  it  issued  propaganda  ad- 
vocating international  communist  solidarity  as  a  tool  of  Soviet 
foreign  policy. 

Cyrillic — Alphabet  ascribed  to  missionaries  Cyril  and  Methodius 
(ninth  century),  developed  from  Greek  for  church  literature 
in  Russian.  The  official  alphabet  of  the  Soviet  Slavic  repub- 
lics, Yugoslavia  excepting  Croatia  and  Slovenia,  and  Bulgar- 
ia, it  was  one  of  the  three  principal  alphabets  of  the  world. 

dinar — Yugoslav  national  currency  unit  consisting  of  100  paras. 
Devalued  frequendy  after  1980.  In  1980  exchange  rate  was 
YD24.9per  US$1;  in  1985,  YD270.2  per  US$1;  and  in  1988, 
YD2,522.6per  US$1.  In  1990  new  "heavy"  dinar  was  estab- 
lished, worth  10,000  old  dinars;  1990  exchange  rate  was  fixed 
at  7  dinars  per  West  German  deutsche  mark.  New  rate  Janu- 
ary 1991  was  YD10.50  per  US$1. 

Dual  Monarchy — Popular  name  for  the  Habsburg  Empire  after 
the  1867  Ausgleich  (Compromise)  that  united  Austria  and  Hun- 
gary under  a  common  monarch;  arranged  to  bolster  the  waning 


321 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


influence  of  Austria  in  Europe.  Also  known  as  the  Austro- 
Hungarian  Empire. 

EC  (European  Community) — A  group  of  three  primarily  economic 
communities  of  West  European  countries,  including  the  Eu- 
ropean Economic  Community  (EEC — q.  v.),  the  European 
Atomic  Energy  Community  (Euratom  or  EAEC),  and  the  Eu- 
ropean Coal  and  Steel  Community  (ECSC).  Executive  power 
rested  with  the  European  Commission,  which  implemented  and 
defended  the  community  treaties  in  the  interests  of  the  EC  as 
a  whole.  Also  known  as  the  European  Communities. 

EEC  (European  Economic  Community) — The  "Common  Mar- 
ket" of  primarily  West  European  countries  organized  to  pro- 
mote coordinated  development  of  economic  activities, 
continuous  and  balanced  expansion,  increased  stability,  and 
closer  relations  among  member  states.  Methods  included  elimi- 
nation of  customs  duties  and  import  restrictions  among  mem- 
ber states  and  a  common  customs  tariff,  a  common  commercial 
policy  toward  outside  countries,  and  a  common  agricultural 
and  transport  policy. 

EFTA  (European  Free  Trade  Association) — Created  in  1960  to 
bring  about  free  trade  in  industrial  goods  and  expansion  of  trade 
in  agricultural  goods  among  member  countries.  In  1990  mem- 
bers included  Austria,  Finland,  Iceland,  Norway,  Sweden,  and 
Switzerland.  The  Joint  EFTA- Yugoslavia  Committee  was  es- 
tablished in  1978  to  expand  trade  and  industrial  cooperation 
with  Yugoslavia. 

GATT  (General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade) — An  integrat- 
ed set  of  bilateral  trade  agreements  among  nations,  formed  in 
1947  to  abolish  quotas  and  reduce  tariffs.  Yugoslavia  became 
a  member  of  GATT  in  1965,  when  its  tariff  and  trade  regula- 
tions were  brought  into  line  with  international  practices. 

GDP  (gross  domestic  product) — A  measure  of  the  total  value  of 
goods  and  services  produced  by  a  domestic  economy  during 
a  given  period,  usually  a  year.  Obtained  by  adding  the  value 
of  profits,  employee  compensation,  and  depreciation  of  capi- 
tal from  each  sector  of  the  economy. 

GMP  (gross  material  product) — The  value  added  by  the  produc- 
tive sectors  before  deduction  of  depreciation.  GMP  excludes 
the  value  of  services  in  the  nonproductive  sectors  such  as 
defense,  public  administration,  finance,  education,  health,  and 
housing.  Also  known  as  social  product. 

GNP  (gross  national  product) — The  sum  of  the  gross  domestic 
product  (GDP — q.v.)  and  the  income  received  from  abroad  by 
residents,  minus  payments  remitted  abroad  to  nonresidents. 


322 


Glossary 


Green  Plans — A  series  of  federal  government  agricultural  plans  in 
Yugoslavia  for  the  period  1973  through  1985,  aimed  at  stimulat- 
ing agricultural  production.  They  provided  for  large  foreign 
and  domestic  investment  in  agriculture  and  incentives  for  pri- 
vate agriculture. 

hard  currency — Currency  freely  convertible  and  traded  on  inter- 
national currency  markets. 

Helsinki  Accords — Signed  August  1975  by  all  European  countries 
except  Albania,  plus  Canada  and  the  United  States,  to  endorse 
general  principles  of  international  behavior,  especially  in  eco- 
nomic, environmental,  and  humanitarian  issues.  Helsinki  Ac- 
cords is  short  form  for  the  Final  Act  of  the  Conference  on 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (CSCE). 

IMF  (International  Monetary  Fund) — Established  with  the  World 
Bank  {q.v.)  in  1945,  a  specialized  agency  affiliated  with  the  Unit- 
ed Nations  and  responsible  for  stabilizing  international  ex- 
change rates  and  payments.  Its  main  business  is  providing  loans 
to  its  members  when  they  experience  balance  of  payments 
difficulties. 

LCY  (League  of  Communists  of  Yugoslavia) — Until  1990  the  sole 
legal  political  party  of  Yugoslavia.  Each  republic  and  province 
had  a  separate  organization,  such  as  the  League  of  Communists 
of  Macedonia.  Until  1952  called  the  Communist  Party  of  Yu- 
goslavia (CPY).  In  1990  the  national  organization  split  at  the 
Fourteenth  Party  Congress;  some  republic  parties  took  differ- 
ent names,  e.g.,  the  Serbian  party  changed  its  name  from 
League  of  Communists  of  Serbia  to  Socialist  Party  of  Serbia. 
All  the  republic  communist  parties  remained  intact  (although 
reduced  in  membership)  and  ran  candidates  in  the  multiparty 
1990  republic  elections. 

market  socialism — The  economic  system  introduced  in  1963  in  Yu- 
goslavia based  on  worker-managed  enterprises,  using  domes- 
tic and  foreign  market  forces  as  a  management  guide. 

nation  and  nationality — Juridically  important  distinctions  that 
played  significant  roles  in  Yugoslav  political  life,  in  spite  of  legis- 
lation that  gave  full  equality  to  minorities  in  culture,  public 
life,  and  language.  The  term  nation  was  used  in  reference  to 
ethnic  groups  whose  traditional  territorial  homelands  lay  mostly 
within  the  modern  boundaries  of  Yugoslavia,  i.e.,  the  Croats, 
Macedonians,  Montenegrins,  Muslim  Slavs,  Serbs,  and  Slo- 
venes. The  term  nationality,  or  national  minority,  designated 
groups  in  Yugoslavia  whose  homelands  were  outside  Yugosla- 
via; the  largest  of  these  were  the  Hungarians  and  the  Albanians. 


323 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 

pan-Slavism — A  nineteenth-century  intellectual  movement  that 
sought  to  unite  the  Slavic  peoples  of  Europe  based  on  their  com- 
mon ethnic  background,  culture,  and  political  goals. 

Partisans — Popular  name  for  resistance  forces  led  by  Josip  Broz 
Tito  during  World  War  II.  In  December  1941,  adopted  for- 
mal name  People's  Liberation  Army  and  Partisan  Detachments. 

Serbia  proper — The  part  of  the  Republic  of  Serbia  not  including 
the  provinces  of  Vojvodina  and  Kosovo;  the  ethnic  and  politi- 
cal core  of  the  Serbian  state. 

social  product — See  GMP  (gross  material  product). 

social  sector — The  sector  of  the  Yugoslav  economy  in  which  assets 
were  socially  owned  and  self-management  governed  econom- 
ic activity. 

Ustase  (sing.,  Ustasa) — From  the  word  ustanak,  meaning  uprising 
or  rebellion.  An  extremist  Croatian  movement  that  began  as 
an  interwar  terrorist  organization,  then  adopted  fascist  guide- 
lines and  collaborated  with  German  and  Italian  occupation 
forces  in  World  War  II.  The  movement's  genocidal  practices 
against  Serbs,  Muslims,  Jews,  and  other  minorities  in  Croa- 
tia and  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  caused  animosities  that  last- 
ed long  after  the  war. 

World  Bank — Informal  name  used  to  designate  a  group  of  three 
affiliated  international  institutions:  the  International  Bank  for 
Reconstruction  and  Development  (IBRD),  providing  loans  to 
developing  countries;  the  International  Development  Associ- 
ation (IDA),  providing  credits  to  the  poorest  developing  coun- 
tries on  easier  terms  than  the  IBRD;  and  the  International 
Finance  Corporation  (IFC),  supplementing  IBRD  activity  by 
loans  to  stimulate  private  enterprise  in  less  developed  coun- 
tries. The  three  institutions  are  owned  by  the  governments  of 
the  countries  that  subscribe  their  capital.  To  participate  in  the 
World  Bank  group,  member  states  must  first  belong  to  the  In- 
ternational Monetary  Fund  (IMF — q.v.). 


324 


Index 


abortion,  69,  118 
Adria  Pipeline,  147 
Adriatic  Coastal  Highway,  150 
Adriatic  Fleet,  248 

Adriatic  Sea,  63-64;  oil  exploration  in, 
147 

Aegean  Sea,  64 

Afghanistan,  Soviet  invasion  of,  56 
age,  average,  68 

aging,  demographic,  68,  88,  90,  102 

agricultural  infrastructure,  145 

agricultural  output,  48 

agricultural  products,  144-45;  export  of, 
145;  import  of,  145;  livestock  as,  145 

agriculture,  144-46;  collectivization  of, 
46,  90,  125;  collectivization  abandoned, 
48,  127,  132;  combines,  144;  coopera- 
tives, 144;  decentralized,  132;  develop- 
ment of,  125-26;  inefficiencies  in,  146; 
in  Macedonia,  144;  modernization  of, 
91;  as  percentage  of  GMP,  144;  pri- 
vately owned  farms,  144;  reform  of, 
32-33;  in  Slovenia,  144;  state  farms, 
144 

Agrokomerc  scandal,  183,  209 
air  force,  246-48;  aircraft,  246-47;  army 
transport  by,  247;  conscripts,  246;  in- 
signia, 263;  missions,  246;  organization 
of,  246;  personnel,  246;  pilot  training 
program,  247;  ranks,  262;  sites  defend- 
ed, 247-48;  support,  246,  248;  uni- 
forms, 265;  weaknesses  in,  247; 
weapons,  246-47 
airports,  151 

Albania,  233;  creation  of  independent, 
27;  as  external  threat,  234;  intervention 
in  Kosovo,  220;  Italian  occupation  of, 
37;  and  Kosovan  Albanians,  xxviii;  ter- 
ritorial disputes  with,  29;  in  World 
War  I,  28;  in  World  War  II,  229 
Albanian  language,  73;  education  in,  115 
Albanian-Macedonian  tensions,  210 
Albanian  Party  for  Democratic  Prosperi- 
ty, xxxvii 

Albanians  (see  also  Serbian- Albanian  con- 
flict), 7,  30,  87-88;  birth  rates  of,  69, 
88;  culture  of,  87;  demographic  aging 
of,  88;  demonstrations  by,  53,  175,  254, 


256-57,  283;  employment,  88;  families, 
88;  intellectuals,  97;  in  Kosovo,  xxvii, 
212,  256-57;  literacy  rate  of,  88,  114; 
in  Macedonia,  223;  as  percentage  of 
population,  70;  population  of,  87; 
population  distribution  of,  87;  popula- 
tion growth  of,  71;  religion  of,  87,  107; 
secret  police  persecution  of,  52,  275; 
separatist  movement,  203;  slaughter  of 
Jews  and  Serbs  by,  39;  students,  88;  in 
YPA,  254,  256;  women,  88 

Albanian- Yugoslav  relations,  204 

alcoholism,  92 

Aleksandar  (King),  xxv,  32;  assassination 
of,  35;  attempted  assassination  of,  31 
Alexander  the  Great,  4 
Algeria,  156,  160 

Allied  powers:  military  assistance  from, 
231 

Amnesty  International,  279 
Andric,  Ivo,  48 

Angola,  160;  military  exchanges  with,  275 
Antifascist  Council  for  the  National  Liber- 
ation of  Yugoslavia  (AVNOJ),  40-41, 
42 

Arafat,  Yasir,  220 

armed  forces  (see  also  Territorial  Defense 
Forces;  Yugoslav  People's  Army;  see 
also  under  individual  services):  insignia, 

262-  63;  and  internal  security,  282;  lan- 
guages used  in,  259;  organization  of, 
227;  and  party,  241-43;  political  in- 
fluence of,  241-42;  ranks,  262-63;  role 
of,  in  Serbia,  227;  and  society,  253-57; 
supreme  commander  of,  239;  Territori- 
al Defense  Forces,  237;  uniforms,  262, 

263-  65;  Yugoslav  People's  Army,  237 
Army  Law  (1982),  262 

artists,  12,  97 

Association  for  a  Yugoslav  Democratic 
Initiative,  207 

Australia:  as  supplier  of  agricultural 
products,  146,  156 

Austria  (see  also  Austrian  Empire;  Austro- 
Hungarian  Empire),  xl,  233;  annexed 
by  Germany,  36;  Bosnia  and  Hercego- 
vina  annexed  by,  10,  21,  22,  24-25; 
dominance  of  Serbs  by,  19;  dominance 


325 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


of  Slovenes  by,  9;  exports  to,  156;  in 
French  Empire,  9,14;  influence  of,  on 
Bosnia  and  Hercegovina,  24;  relations 
with,  234;  territorial  disputes  with,  29 
Austria-Hungary.  See  Austro-Hungarian 
Empire 

Austrian  Empire  (see  also  Austria;  Austro- 
Hungarian  Empire),  6,  8;  abolition  of 
serfdom  in,  9,  15,  80;  formation  of 
Dual  Monarchy,  10,  15,  2 1 ;  revolutions 
of  1848  in,  9,  15 

Austro-Hungarian  Empire  (see  also  Aus- 
tria; Austrian  Empire),  xxix,  7,  15,  27, 
206,  228;  annexation  of  Bosnia  and 
Hercegovina  by,  16,  24-25;  control  of 
Croatia  by,  16;  control  of  Dalmatia  by, 
15;  in  World  War  I,  27 

automobiles,  146,  150 

automotive  industry,  141-43;  exports  by, 
141 

Avars,  6,  7,  11 

AVNOJ.  See  Antifascist  Council  for  the 
National  Liberation  of  Yugoslavia 

Axis  occupation  of  Yugoslavia,  230-31; 
as  drain  on  military  campaigns, 
230-31;  execution  of  civilians  during, 
230 

Axis  powers;  accommodation  to,  229;  in- 
vasion of  Yugoslavia  by,  37,  230-31 

Balearic,  Vladimir,  50 

balance  of  payments,  155;  maintenance 
of  positive,  162 

Balkan  Entente,  34,  35 

Balkan  Mountains,  63 

Balkans:  dominated  by  Serbia,  17;  frag- 
mentation in,  172;  Turkish  conquest  of,  8 

Balkan  wars,  7,  26-28,  220;  First,  27, 
228;  Second,  27,  86,  228-29 

ban,  11,  16,  36,  42 

banking,  136-38;  audits  in,  137;  central 
banking  system,  137;  collapse  of,  xxxiv; 
commercial,  137;  financial  assets,  137; 
financial  institutions,  137;  internal 
banks,  137-38;  reform  failure,  xxxiii 

banovina,  33 

Baptist  Church,  107 

Bar,  64 

Bardylis,  4 

Basic  Law  on  the  Management  of  State 
Economic  Enterprises  by  Working  Col- 
lectives (1950),  127 


Basic  Law  on  Relations  Between  Parents 
and  Children  (1962),  97-98 

basic  organization  of  associated  labor 
(BOAL),  93,  130,  179 

Belgium:  exports  to,  143 

Belgrade,  231 

Belgrade-Bar  Railroad,  64 

Belgrade  Conference  of  Nonaligned  Na- 
tions (1961),  216 

Belgrade  Declaration,  49,  218,  268 

Belgrade  demonstrations,  xxix-xxx,  xxxi 

"Belgrade  Six,"  212,  213 

Berlin,  Treaty  of  (1878),  21,  24,  26 

Bihac,  40 

birth  rates,  69 

Black  Hand,  27 

Blajvajs,  Janez,  9 

Blue  Book  (Pasic),  193 

BOAL.  See  basic  organization  of  associat- 
ed labor 

Bogomilism,  22-23,  83 

Bogomils,  23-24 

Bohemia,  10 

Bolshevik  Revolution  (1917),  39 

Boskovic,  Rudjer,  12 

Bosna  River:  hydroelectric  power  on,  149 

Bosnia  (see  also  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina), 
22-25;  annexed  by  Austria,  10,  21,  22, 
24-25;  Austrian  influence  on,  24,  83; 
coal  mining  in,  147;  competition  of,  for 
Dalmatia,  12;  Islamic  culture  in,  83; 
Muslim  fundamentalism  in,  53,  83-86; 
noncommunist  government  of,  xxvii; 
revolts  in,  against  Turkish  occupation, 
24;  Turkish  occupation  of,  23-24; 
zadruga  in,  98 

Bosnia  and  Hercegovina  (see  also  Bosnia; 
Hercegovina),  xxiv,  175,  190,  208; 
agriculture  in,  145;  annexed  by  Aus- 
tria, 16,  24-25,  83;  birth  rates  in,  69; 
commitment  to  unity  in,  222;  com- 
munist party  in,  200;  constitutional 
amendments  instigated  by,  175;  Croats 
in,  78;  demographic  age  in,  68;  EC 
recognition  requested  by,  xli;  elections 
in,  to  State  Presidency,  187;  ethnic  dis- 
tribution in,  71,  209;  German  occupa- 
tion of,  37;  independence  declared  by, 
xxxv;  in  Kingdom  of  the  Serbs,  Croats, 
and  Slovenes,  29;  medieval  history  of, 
23;  mining  in,  149;  Muslim  Slavs  in, 
82-83;  opposition  to  Serbia,  xxviii;  as 
point  of  contention  in  Serbian-Croatian 


326 


Index 


conflict  (1991),  xxxvi,  xxxix;  political 
issues  in,  209-10;  progressive  politics 
in,  209;  religion  in,  108;  Serbianiza- 
tion  campaign  in,  202;  Serbs  in,  xli,  74, 
76 

Bosnians:  history  of,  7 

Brioni  decisions,  48-49 

Britain:  cooperation  agreements  for 
producing  materiel,  272;  exports  to, 
143;  imports  from,  156;  materiel  from, 
250,  267;  military  assistance  from,  231; 
mistrust  of,  35;  in  World  War  I,  27;  in 
World  War  II,  40 

Brotherhood  and  Unity  Highway,  150 

Bucin,  Nenad,  208 

Buda,  12 

Bulatovic,  Momir,  xxxviii,  xli 
Bulgaria,  27;  Macedonians  in,  86; 
Macedonian  relations  with,  xxxvii;  oc- 
cupation of  Yugoslavia  by,  37,  86,  229; 
relations  with,  234;  Serbian  relations 
with,  22;  territorial  disputes  with,  29, 
30,  33,  34,  210,  219-20,  228,  234; 
treaty  with  (1937),  35;  in  World  War 
I,  28 

Bulgarianization,  39 

Bulgarian  language,  73;  education  in,  115 

Bulgarian  Orthodox  Church,  25;  schools 

established  by,  86 
Bulgars,  7,  30 
bureaucracy,  94-95 
Byzantine  Empire,  6,  11,  17 
Byzantium  (see  also  Constantinople),  5 


Calvinist  Reformed  Church,  107 
Canada:    as   supplier   of  agricultural 

products,  146 
Carantania,  7 
Carinthia,  8 
Carniola,  8,  10 
Carnojevic,  Arsenije  III,  18 
Carpathian  Mountains,  63 
Carter,  Jimmy,  219 
Castro,  Fidel,  56,  217 
Cathedral  of  St.  Sava,  110 
Catholic  Church.  See  Roman  Catholic 

Church 
Celts,  4 

censorship,  214-15;  loosened,  214;  post- 
publication,  214 
Central  Powers,  27-28 


Cetnici,  39,  40,  231;  defeat  of,  42;  mili- 
tary assistance  to,  231;  punishment  of, 
44;  resistance  of  occupiers  by,  229-30; 
rivalry  of,  with  Partisans,  40,  230;  role 

^  of,  230 

Cetnik  Detachments  of  the  Yugoslav 

Army  of  the  Fatherland.  See  Cetnici 
Charlemagne,  7 

Chemical  Industry  (Pancevo),  143 
Chemical  Production  Industry  (Prahovo), 
143 

chemicals  industry,  140,  143-44;  exports 

by,  143 
China,  217 

Christianity,  11;  conflicts  with  Islam,  106; 

legalized,  5;  Serbs  converted  to,  16 
Christians:  persecution  of,  5,  6 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-Day 

Saints,  107 
civil  defense,  259 
civil  rights,  174 

climate,  64-67;  of  Dalmatia,  67;  of  Mon- 
tenegro, 64-67 

coal  industry:  production,  147;  waste  in, 
147-48 

Coalition  of  People's  Accord,  208 
collectivization.  See  agriculture 
Comecon.  See  Council  for  Mutual  Eco- 
nomic Assistance 
Cominform:  economic  blockade  by,  46, 
126,  232;  expulsion  of  Yugoslavia  from, 
46,  123,  173;  founded,  45 
Comintern,  230 

Committee  for  the  Defense  of  Freedom 
of  Thought  and  Expression,  213 

Committee  for  the  Protection  of  Artistic 
Freedom,  212 

Committee  for  the  Protection  of  Human- 
ity and  the  Environment,  212-13 

communes,  190-91;  chambers  in,  191; 
defined,  190;  functions  of,  190 

Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet  Union 
(CPSU),  49 

Communist  Party  of  Yugoslavia  (CPY) 
(see  also  League  of  Communists  of  Yu- 
goslavia), 131,  193;  attempts  to  sup- 
press, 31;  economic  plans  of,  124; 
membership,  95-96;  Montenegrins  in, 
77;  orthodox,  in  exile,  280;  in  World 
War  II,  39,  230 

communities  of  interest,  132,  152;  for 
health  care,  117;  levies  by,  136;  for  so- 
cial welfare,  118 


327 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Concordat.  35 

confederation,  xli:  arguments  for.  xxiii- 
xxiv;  obstacles  to  dividing,  xxiv 

Confederation  of  Trade  Unions  of  Yugo- 
slavia, 198 

conscientious  objectors.  257 

conscription:  exemption  from.  257-58; 
number  eligible  for.  257;  term  of  ser- 
vice for.  257 

conscripts.  256;  backgrounds  of.  259; 
reliability  of,  xxxii 

Constantine.  5 

Constantinople  (see  also  Byzantium),  6 

constituent  assembly.  31,  42.  43 

Constitutional  Court.  189 

constitution  of  1931.  34 

constitution  of  1946,  173;  amended,  48 

constitution  of  1953.  173-74:  decentrali- 
zation under,  173-74 

constitution  of  1963,  50,  174-75;  amend- 
ments to,  53.  175;  civil  and  human 
rights  under.  174;  decentralization  un- 
der. 174;  market  socialism  in,  129: 
recentralizaton  under,  174;  rotation  of 
office,  174 

Constitution  of  1974.  54-56.  182.  189: 
amendments  to,  xxxv.  180,  183.  203; 
civil  rights  under,  276-77;  decentrali- 
zation under,  xxvi,  204:  defense 
production  under.  270;  defense  require- 
ments, 240;  economic  reorganization 
in.  130.  200;  ethnic  categories  under, 
70.  87.  88:  Federal  Assembly  under. 
184:  Federal  Executive  Council  under. 
185;  freedom  of  speech.  212,  276: 
government  spending  in,  136;  health 
care  under,  117-18:  individual  rights 
under,  177,  276:  internal  security  un- 
der, 282:  Kosovan  autonomy  under, 
xxviii;  languages  under,  72-73,  259; 
LCY  under.  192;  recentralization  un- 
der, 177;  Serbian  control  limited  in, 
203:  socialist  self-management  under, 
131,  179.  191:  SAWPY  under,  197; 
State  Presidency  under,  177,  187-89: 
TND  doctrine  in,  235;  trade  unions  un- 
der, 198 

Conversations  with  Stalin  (Djilas),  49 
Corfu.  Declaration  of.  28 
Cosic,  Dobrica,  213;  repression  of,  211 
Council  for  Civil  Defense,  259 
Council  for  Mutual  Economic  Assistance 
CComecon).  46:  observer  status  in,  159: 


trade  with.  157-58,  159-60 
Council  for  National  Defense.  239 
Council  for  the  Protection  of  the  Constitu- 
tional Order,  282 
Council  for  Territorial  Defense,  240,  252 
Council  of  the  Confederation,  198 
Counterreformation.  8,  13.  113 
court   system,    189-90;  Constitutional 
Court,  189;  judges  in,  279;  military, 
189.  279:  procedures,  174;  regular, 
189:  Supreme  Court.  189.  190,  279 
CPSU.  See  Communist  Party  of  the  Soviet 
Union 

CPY.  See  Communist  Part}-  of  Yugoslavia 
crime,  political,  276;  prisoners,  279:  sen- 
tence for,  278;  verbal.  277-78 
criminal  code,  federal,  189,  277 
''Critical  Analysis  of  the  Functioning  of 
the  Political  System  of  Socialist  Self- 
Management,  ' "  182 
Croatia,  xxiii,  xxiv,  6,  12,  13,  183,  205; 
abortion  laws  in,  69;  ancient  peoples  of, 
4:  autonomy  for.  36.  78,  180;  birth 
rates  in.  69:  coal  mining  in,  147;  com- 
mitment to  unity  in,  222;  communist 
party  in,  193,  197,  200,  207,  208; 
Counterreformation  in,  13,  113;  decen- 
tralization aims  of,  175;  demand  for 
military  autonomy,  256;  demographic 
age  in,  68:  economic  activity  in,  164; 
economic  and  political  questions  in, 
xl:  EEC  membership  for,  xxxix,  165, 
216:  ethnic  distribution  in,  71;  ethnic 
factionalism  in,  176:  foreign  exchange 
in.  162:  German  occupation  of,  37, 
80.  124:  guest  workers  from.  105: 
under  Hungary-,  15,  37:  as  independent 
nation.  1 1 .  36;  industry  in,  140;  infant 
mortality  rate  in,  68;  Italy  as  threat  to, 
32;  military  deployment  in,  244;  mul- 
tiparty elections  in,  207,  223;  Nagod- 
ba  opposed  by,  15:  under  Napoleon, 
14:  nationalism  in,  xxvi,  53,  207,  240; 
noncommunist  government  of,  xxvii; 
political  culture,  223;  political  issues 
in,  206-9;  political  unrest  in,  53-54, 
130,  212;  population  distribution  in, 
78:  pro-Serbian  demonstrations  in, 
207:  religion  in.  107,  108;  secession 
of,  xxvi,  xxx,  xxxiv,  xxxix,  222;  Serbs 
in,  xxix,  xxx,  xxxi,  xli,  74,  76,  176: 
teachers  in,  114:  television  in,  215: 
troop  deployment  in.  244;  union  with 


328 


Index 


Hungary,  11;  zadruga  in,  98 
Croatian  Democratic  Union,  xxvii,  80, 
207-8 

Croatian  language,  15,  53,  80 

Croatian  Militant  Unity,  278 

Croatians:  political  uprisings  by,  35,  240; 
role  of,  in  World  War  II,  3 

Croatian  Social  Liberal  Alliance,  207 

Croatian  Spring,  80,  97 

Croats  (see  also  Serbian-Croatian  rivalry), 
6,  10-16,  78-80;  in  Bosnia  and  Her- 
cegovina,  210;  cultural  influences  on, 
70;  history  of,  6,  70;  intellectuals,  97; 
literacy  rate,  113-14;  massacre  of  other 
ethnic  groups  by,  75;  migrations  of, 
10-11;  nationalism  of,  80;  as  percen- 
tage of  population,  70;  persecution  of, 
275;  purged  from  YPA,  256;  in  secret 
police,  52;  stereotype  of,  73-74;  in 
YPA,  254,  256;  in  World  War  I,  28 

Cuba,  54 

culture:  under  communist  government, 

48;  traditional,  91-92 
Cvetkovic,  Dragisa,  36 
Cyprus,  220 

Cyrillic  alphabet,  8,  72-73 

Czech  language,  73;  education  in,  115 

Czechoslovakia,  33,  35,  229;  cooperation 
agreements  for  producing  materiel, 
269,  272;  exports  to,  141,  156;  imports 
from,  156;  invasion  of,  by  Warsaw 
Pact,  52,  218,  232,  233,  235;  materiel 
from,  246,  267,  269;  trade  relations 
with,  159 

Czechs,  30 


Dalmatia,  5,  6,  11,  13,  17,  28;  under  Aus- 
tria, 14;  climate  of,  67;  Counterrefor- 
mation  in,  13;  domination  of,  11-12; 
Italian  occupation  of,  37;  under 
Napoleon,  14;  under  Venice,  14 

Dalmatin,  Anton,  13 

Dalmatin,  Jurij,  8 

Dalmatinac,  Juraj,  12 

Danilo  II,  21 

Danube  Basin,  5,  6 

Danube  Plain,  19 

Danube  River,  63,  64 

DCVH.  See  Democratic  Community  of 
Vojvodina  Hungarians 

death,  causes  of,  116,  117 

debt,  155;  rescheduled,  156 


decentralization,  50,  52,  128-29,  174, 
179,  200;  and  LCY,  193;  in  the  1950s, 
173-74;  opposition  to,  54 

defense:  organization  for,  238-40;  of 
provinces  and  republics,  240 

Delo,  214 

Democratic  Alliance  of  Kosovo,  206 
democratic  centralism,  47,  49,  54,  97,  194 
Democratic  Community  of  Vojvodina 

Hungarians  (DCVH),  206 
Democratic  Party  (Serbian),  31,  34 
Demos  coalition,  xxvii,  202 
deutsche  mark,  xxxiii,  65 
Development,  Federal  Secretariat  for,  185 
Dimitrijevic,  Dragutin  "Apis,"  22 
dinar:  convertibility  of,  156;  devaluations 

of,  156;  revaluation  of,  xxxiii,  166 
Dinaric  Alps,  5,  63 
Diocletian,  5 

Directions  of  Development  of  the  Political  Sys- 
tem of  Self- Management,  The  (Kardelj), 
179 

Directorate  for  State  Security  {see  also 
secret  police;  State  Security  Service), 
280;  purged,  280-81 

Directorate  for  Supply  and  Procurement, 
273 

disease,  116,  117 
dissidents,  211-13,  276-78 
districts,  190 

Djerdap  Hydroelectric  Station,  67,  149 
Djilas,  Milovan,  49,   173,   193,  212; 

repression  of,  211,  215 
Djogo,  Gojko,  212 
Djukanovic,  Milo,  xxxviii 
Djurakovic,  Nijaz,  209 
Domestic  Trade,  Federal  Secretariat  for, 

185 

Dow  Chemical,  143 

drainage  systems,  64 

Drina  River:  hydroelectric  power  on,  148 

Drnovsek,  Janez,  184,  187 

drug  use,  104 

Dual   Monarchy   {see  also  Austro- 

Hungarian  Empire),  10,  15,  21 
Dubcek,  Alexander,  53 
Dubrovnik,  12;  under  Napoleon,  14 
Dunavbrod  Association,  141 
Dusan,  Stefan,  17 

earthquakes,  63 

Eastern  Orthodox  Church  {see  also  under 


329 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


specific  national  branches),  6,  18,  30,  107, 

108-10;  number  of  members,  108; 

persecution  of  priests,  108 
East  Germany.  See  German  Democratic 

Republic 
EC.  See  European  Community 
ecology,  101 

economic  blockade,  46,  126,  232 

economic  crisis,  163-65;  and  military 
spending,  266 

economic  disparities,  163 

economic  enterprises,  198;  bankruptcy  of, 
xxxiii-xxxiv 

economic  issues,  222 

economic  planning,  128,  134-35;  "in- 
dicative," 134;  problems  with,  134-35; 
process  of,  134;  "social,"  134 

economic  problems,  62-63,  123,  126 

economic  reforms,  xxvi,  xxxii,  xxxv,  48, 
50,  92,  180-83;  attempts  to  block,  52, 
175;  austerity  measures  under,  180, 
181,  182,  183;  of  banking,  137;  com- 
ponents of,  129-30;  effect  on  workers, 
93;  and  ethnic  rivalries,  50,  222;  goals 
of,  129,  139;  under  Markovic,  xxxii- 
xxxiii,  123-24;  of  1965,  129-30,  155; 
problems  under,  51,  222 

economic  reforms  of  1990,  165-67; 
bankruptcy  laws  strengthened,  165-66; 
effects  of,  166;  monetary  reform,  165; 
phase  one,  166;  phase  two,  166-67; 
price  controls  removed,  165;  resistance 
to,  166-67;  wage  austerity  program, 
165,  182 

economy:  development  of,  125-26;  in  the 
1920s,  32-33;  under  German  occupa- 
tion, 124;  state  control  of,  125 

education,  113-16;  church  schools,  86; 
under  communist  government,  48; 
higher,  116;  history  of,  113-14;  Islam- 
ic, 83;  languages  used  in,  73,  114,  115; 
level  attained,  114,  115;  secular,  83; 
student-teacher  ratio,  114-15;  of  wom- 
en, 83,  100,  113 

education,  primary,  114-15;  attendance, 
114;  enrollment,  114;  languages  used 
in,  115;  student-teacher  ratio,  114 

education,  secondary,  115;  curriculum  re- 
form in,  115;  languages  used  in,  115; 
number  of  students  in,  115;  spending 
on,  115;  student-teacher  ratio  in,  115 

EEC.  See  European  Economic  Com- 
munity 


EFTA.  See  European  Free  Trade  As- 
sociation 

Egypt,  216,  269;  exports  to,  160;  imports 
from,  156;  military  exchanges  with, 
275;  relations  with,  221 

El  Alamein,  Battle  of,  230 

elections,  multiparty,  xxvii,  xxxvi, 
xxxviii,  201-2,  207-8,  223 

electrical  power,  91;  hydroelectric, 
148-49;  nuclear,  149;  production  of, 
146;  transmission  grid,  146 

emigration,  104 

emigres:  assassinations  of,  281-82;  sub- 
versive activities  of,  281 

Emona  (see  also  Ljubljana),  6 

employment:  peasant  migration  for,  92; 
rate,  102;  of  women,  100 

Energoinvest,  160 

Energoproekt,  160 

energy,  146-50;  consumption,  146-47; 
generation  of,  91,  146,  148-49;  short- 
age of,  146 

Enlightenment:  influence  on  Slovenian 
nationalism,  8-9;  spread  to  Serbs,  21 

Ethiopia,  269;  military  exchanges  with, 
275 

ethnic  composition,  xxix,  70-72 
ethnic  groups  (see  also  under  individual 
groups;  see  also  South  Slavs),  6-16, 
30-31;  categories  of,  70;  education  of, 
115;  equal  rights  for,  71-72;  histories 
of,  6-7;  nationalities,  70;  nations,  70, 
73-90 

ethnic  rivalries,  xxvi;  between  Croats  and 
Serbs,  73-74;  sparked  by  economic  re- 
form, 50 

ethnographic  history,  69-70;  complexities 
of,  70;  of  South  Slavs,  69 

Europe,  Eastern:  relations  with,  219-20; 
trade  with,  44,  126,  143 

Europe,  Western:  credits  and  loans  from, 
126;  relations  with,  221;  trade  with,  158 

European  Community  (EC),  xli;  cease- 
fires arranged  by,  xxx,  xxxi,  xxxix; 
recognition  by,  of  Croatia  and  Slove- 
nia, xxxix-xli 

European  Economic  Community  (EEC): 
commercial  agreement  with,  52,  158; 
Common  Agricultural  Policy  of,  158; 
economic  sanctions  threatened  by, 
xxxiv;  goal  of  membership  in,  xxiii, 
xxviii,  xxxiv,  158,  165,  216,  221;  loan 
from,  xxxiv;  obstacles  to  membership 


330 


Index 


in,  158-59;  trade  deficit  with,  155 

European  Free  Trade  Association 
(EFTA),  159,  221 

Evangelical  Church,  107 

exports,  156;  agricultural  products,  145, 
156;  automobiles,  141;  chemicals,  143; 
to  Comecon,  157-58;  customers  for, 
141,  143,  156;  effect  of  dinar  on,  166; 
kinds  of,  156;  machinery,  156;  metal- 
lurgical products,  141;  ships,  141;  sub- 
sidies, 162-63;  to  Third  World,  160; 
transportation  equipment,  156 

extended  family:  under  communist  rule, 
99;  composition  of,  98;  decline  in  size 
of,  100 

external  threat:  Albania  as,  234;  Bulgar- 
ia as,  234;  Soviet  Union  as,  233 


family,  xxiii,  97-102;  laws  regarding, 
97-98;  patriarchal,  100;  role  of  wom- 
en in,  100 
family  planning,  69,  118 
FEC.  See  Federal  Executive  Council 
Federal  Assembly  (Skupstina),  31,  35, 
184-85,  189,  274;  Chamber  of  Nation- 
alities, 174,  175;  Chamber  of  Repub- 
lics and  Provinces,  177,  184,  185,  191; 
under  communist  rule,  44,  47,  53,  54, 
174;  courts  overseen  by,  189;  dissolved, 
32;  electoral  procedure  for,  177,  184, 
191,  198;  Federal  Chamber,  174,  177, 
184,  191;  military  powers,  239;  multi- 
party elections  for,  223;  Peasant  Party 
boycott   of,    31;    reorganized,  48; 
representatives,  184,  185;  socialist  self- 
management  in,  177;  voting  in,  184-85 
Federal  Executive  Council  (FEC),  174, 
184,  185-87,  189;  advisory  councils, 
187;  committees  in,  185;  created,  48; 
criticism  of,  213;  foreign  policy  under, 
216;  legislation  in,  186;  members  of, 
185;  regional  split  within,  186;  respon- 
sibilities of,  185;  rotation  in,  xxxv,  185; 
separation  of,  from  party,  192 
Federal   People's  Assembly,  173-74; 
Chamber  of  Producers,  174;  Federal 
Chamber,  173 
Federal  Planning  Commission,  125,  127 
federal  public  prosecutor,  282 
Federal  Republic  of  Germany  (West  Ger- 
many): exports  to,  156;  guest  workers 


in,  106;  imports  from,  156,  157; 
materiel  from,  269;  relations  with,  221; 
trade  with,  159 

Federation  of  Associations  of  Veterans  of 
the  National  Liberation  War  (SUB- 
NOR),  199-200,  241 

Federation  of  Jewish  Communities  of  Yu- 
goslavia, 113 

Ferdinand  I,  12 

Finance,  Federal  Secretariat  for,  185 

Finland:  exports  to,  141 

fishing:  as  percentage  of  GMP,  144 

Five- Year  Plan,  Fifth,  140,  155 

Five-Year  Plan,  First,  125-26;  agricultur- 
al development  in,  125-26;  economic 
development  in,  125-26;  industrial  de- 
velopment in,  125-26,  139;  objectives 
of,  125;  trade  deficit,  126 

Five-Year  Plan,  "Perspective"  (see  also 
Five-Year  Plan,  Second),  127-28; 
mechanism  of,  127;  purpose  of,  127 

Five-Year  Plan,  Second  (see  also  Five-Year 
Plan,  "Perspective"),  126 

Five-Year  Plan,  Sixth,  140 

Five-Year  Plan,  Third,  128-29;  aban- 
doned, 128;  goals  of,  128 

Foreign  Affairs,  Federal  Secretariat  for, 
216 

foreign  debt,  163,  164 

foreign  exchange,  162-63;  allocation  of 
reserves,  162;  controls  relaxed  on,  163; 
free  market  system  in,  162;  functional 
priorities  system,  162;  reserves,  163, 
166;  retention  ratio  system,  162;  scar- 
city of,  162;  with  United  States,  155; 
with  Western  Europe,  155 

foreign  military  relations,  272-73;  access 
rights,  273;  arms  sales,  273-74,  275; 
controversy  regarding,  272;  military 
exchanges,  274-75;  importance  of,  272; 
training,  274-75;  warship  visits,  273 

foreign  policy,  215-21;  institutions,  216; 
toward  Middle  East,  220;  in  the  1920s, 
33;  nonalignment  in,  50,  215;  oil  as  in- 
centive in,  83,  112;  under  Stojadinov- 
ic,  35 

foreign  trade,  152-63;  barriers,  155;  with 
Cominform,  152;  decline  in,  155; 
deficit,  156,  157,  158;  with  Eastern  Eu- 
rope, 126;  nationalization  of,  125;  oil 
as  influence  on,  155;  as  percentage  of 
GNP,  152;  under  Soviet  model,  152; 
with  Soviet  Union,  126,  159-60;  with 


331 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


Third  World,  160;  trading  partners, 
157-60;  with  United  States,  155;  with 
Western  Europe,  155 

France,  33,  34,  229;  cooperation  agree- 
ments for  producing  materiel,  272;  ex- 
ports to,  141,  143,  156;  materiel  from, 
267,  269;  mistrust  of,  35;  in  World  War 
I,  27 

Francis  I,  13 

Franciscans,  13 

Frankish  Kingdom,  6 

Franks,  7,  11 

Franz  Ferdinand,  27 

Franz  Joseph,  15 

freedom  of  speech,  175,  211;  measures  to 

control,  212 
French  Empire:  reforms  under,  9 
Front  for  Independent  Slovenia,  202 
Fund  for  Underdeveloped  Regions,  165 

Gaj,  Ljudevit,  15 

gas,  natural:  exploration,  140;  produc- 
tion, 147 

GATT.  See  General  Agreement  on  Tariffs 
and  Trade 

General  Agreement  on  Tariffs  and  Trade 
(GATT):  membership  in,  51,  158 

Georgievski,  Ljupco,  xxxvii 

German  Democratic  Republic  (East  Ger- 
many): exports  to,  143;  trade  relations 
with,  159 

Germanization:  of  Hungary,  13;  of  Yu- 
goslavia, 37 

Germans,  20;  population  growth  of,  71 

Germany:  as  ally  of  Yugoslavia,  34,  35; 
annexation  of  Austria  by,  36;  economic 
links  with,  8,  35;  materiel  from,  248, 
267;  occupation  of  Yugoslavia  by,  xxv, 
37-39,  124,  229;  destruction  by,  of  Lit- 
tle Entente,  36;  in  World  War  I,  27; 
in  World  War  II,  230,  231 

Germany  (unified),  xxxix,  xl 

Ghana,  216 

Gligorov,  Kiro,  xli 

GMP.  See  gross  material  product 

GNP.  See  gross  national  product 

Goli  Otok,  280 

Gorbachev,  Mikhail  S.,  xxiii,  xxxi,  218, 
234 

government:  restructuring  of,  xxv-xxvi; 

separation  of,  from  party,  175,  177 
government,  local,  190-91;  presidencies 


of,  190;  structure  of,  190 

government  revenue  and  spending,  136; 
categories,  136;  military,  266-67;  tax- 
es, 136 

Great  Depression,  34 

Greater  Albania,  xxviii 

Greater  Croatia,  16 

Greater  Serbia,  xli 

Great  Schism,  11 

Greece,  27,  231;  in  Balkan  Entente,  34, 
216,  229,  232;  exports  to,  143; 
Macedonian  relations  with,  xxxvii,  210; 
territorial  disputes  with,  219-20 

Greek  Orthodox  Church:  schools  estab- 
lished by,  86 

Greeks,  7,  30;  influence  on  eastern  Adri- 
atic; influence  on  Macedonia,  25; 
Macedonians  as,  86 

Greek  trading  posts,  4 

Green  Plans,  146 

gross  material  product  (GMP),  123,  130 
gross   national  product  (GNP),  134; 
defense  expenditures  as  percentage  of, 
232,  267;  foreign  trade  as  percentage 
of,  152 
Gubec,  Matija,  13 

guest  workers,  xxv,  62,  104-6,  160-61, 
257;  demographic  profile  of,  105-6;  dis- 
tribution of,  105;  employment  of 
returning,  106,  164;  hard  currency 
from,  xxxiv,  52,  92,  128,  155,  160-61; 
number  of,  104-5,  161;  origins  of,  104; 
peasants  as,  92;  as  remedy  for  unem- 
ployment, 51-52,  130,  138,  139,  161; 
women  as,  106 

Gundulic,  Ivan,  12 

Gypsies,  30;  education  of,  89;  elimination 
by  Ustase,  38;  language  of,  73;  mas- 
sacre by  Croats,  75;  population  of,  89 

habeas  corpus,  212 
Habsburgs,  8,  12,  81 
hajduci,  18 

hard  currency,  xxv,  128 

Hare  Krishnas,  107 

health  care,  116-18;  under  communist 
government,  48;  disparities  in,  xxiii, 
117;  entitlements,  118;  facilities,  118; 
improvements  in,  117;  insurance  for, 
117;  physician-resident  ratio,  116,  117; 
system,  116-18;  for  women,  100 

Helsinki  Accords,  217 


332 


Index 


Heraclius,  11 

Hercegovina  (see  also  Bosnia  and  Hercego- 
vina),  22-25;  annexed  by  Austria,  10, 
21,  22,  24-25;  Austrian  influence  on, 
24;  etymology  of,  23;  peasant  culture 
in,  91;  revolts  against  Turkish  occupa- 
tion in,  24;  Turkish  occupation  of, 
23-24;  zadruga  in,  98 

Higher  Naval  Academy,  261 

Hitler,  Adolf,  37 

Honorius  III  (Pope),  17 

housing,  102-3;  allocation  of,  103;  bribes 
to  obtain,  103;  cost  of,  103;  methods 
of  obtaining,  103;  for  migrants,  102; 
privately  owned,  103;  socially  owned, 
103;  supply  of,  102-3;  unplanned  set- 
tlements, 104 

Hoxha,  Enver,  42,  220 

Hrebeljanovic,  Lazar,  17 

Hum  (see  also  Hercegovina),  23 

human  rights,  174;  policies  condemned 
by  United  States,  219;  violations,  279 

Hungarian  language.  See  Magyar  lan- 
guage 

Hungarian  Revolution  (1956),  49 
Hungarians,  30;  as  percentage  of  popu- 
lation, 70;  population  growth  of,  71; 
slaughter  of  Jews  and  Serbs  by,  39;  in 
YPA,  254 
Hungarian- Yugoslav  relations,  49 
Hungary,  231;  attempt  to  dominate  Dal- 
matia,  11-12;  control  by,  of  Croatia 
and  Slavonia,  15;  in  Dual  Monarchy, 
10,  15,  21;  occupation  of  Yugoslavia 
by,  37,  229;  Magyar  as  official  lan- 
guage of,  15;  relations  with,  220,  234; 
Soviet  invasion  of,  233;  support  of,  for 
Ustase,  35;  territorial  disputes  with,  29, 
30,  33;  Turkish  conquest  of,  8,  18; 
Turkish  withdrawal  from,  13;  union  of, 
with  Croatia,  11 
Huns,  6,  10 


Iazov,  Dmitrii,  218 
Ibar  River,  67 
Illyria,  4 

Illyria,  Kingdom  of,  14 
Illyrian  movement,  15 
Illyrian  Provinces,  9,  14 
Illyrians,  4 

IMF.  See  International  Monetary  Fund 


imports,  156;  of  agricultural  products, 
145;  effect  of  dinar  on,  166;  of 
machinery,  156;  suppliers,  156;  of 
transportation  equipment,  156;  from 
Third  World,  160;  types  of,  156 

IMRO.  See  Internal  Macedonian  Revolu- 
tionary Organization 

Independent  State  of  Croatia  (NDH),  37 

India,  160,  216,  269;  military  exchanges 
with,  275 

Indonesia,  216 

industrialization,  xxiii,  92,  139;  postwar 

policy  on,  140 
industrial  production,  xxxiv,  123,  126, 

143 

industrial  structure,  143-44 

industry  (see  also  under  individual  industries), 
139-44;  automotive  industry,  141-43; 
branches  of,  140;  chemicals,  143;  coal, 
147-48;  development  of,  33,  125;  lo- 
cation of,  140;  metallurgy,  141;  min- 
ing, 140;  nationalization  of,  125; 
problems  in,  143-44;  shipbuilding,  141 

inflation,  xxxiv,  123,  163-64;  attempt  to 
control,  xxxii-xxxiii,  164;  under  Ger- 
man occupation,  124;  in  late  1980s, 
163;  and  unemployment,  139 

infrastructure:  development  of,  33 

intelligentsia,  12,  52,  94-97;  backgrounds 
of,  96;  bureaucrats  and  professionals  as, 
94-95;  as  catalysts  for  nationalism,  94; 
under  communist  rule,  95;  education 
of,  96-97;  as  party  members,  196,  222; 
precommunist,  94;  Serbs  as,  95;  tech- 
nical, 97 

Intelsat.  See  International  Telecommuni- 
cations Satellite  Organization 

Internal  Affairs,  Federal  Secretariat  for, 
282 

Internal  Macedonian  Revolutionary  Or- 
ganization (IMRO),  26 

Internal  Macedonian  Revolutionary 
Organization-Democratic  Party  for  Na- 
tional Unity,  xxxvii 

internal  security,  275-84;  and  dissidents, 
276,  279;  organization  of,  282-83;  and 
political  crimes,  276,  279;  as  threat  to 
national  security,  275;  used  against  eth- 
nic groups,  275 

internal  security  forces,  280-82;  assassi- 
nations by,  281-82;  control  over,  281; 
purge  of,  280;  responsibilities  of,  280; 
YPA  role  in,  283-84 


333 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF), 
xxxiii,  158,  163;  loan  from,  xxxiv 

International  Telecommunications  Satel- 
lite Organization  (Intelsat),  152 

Iran,  160 

Iraq:  arms  sales  to,  274;  oil  supplied  by, 
147,  156,  160;  Swedish  arms  sales  to, 
254,  274,  279 

Iron  Gate,  63 

Islam,  30,  107,  112-13;  Bektashi  dervish- 
es, 112-13;  in  Bosnia,  83;  conflicts  with 
Christianity,  106;  conversions  to,  7,  23, 
83,  87,  112;  education,  112,  113;  Rais- 
ul  Ulama,  112;  relations  with  govern- 
ment, 112;  structure  of,  112 
Israel,  113,  220-21 
Istria,  4,  28,  29;  coal  mining  in,  147 
Italian  language,  73;  education  in,  115 
Italy,  34;  cooperation  agreements  for 
producing  materiel,   272;  economic 
links  with,  8,  35;  exports  to,  143;  im- 
ports from,  156;  materiel  from,  248, 
267;  mistrust  of,  35;  occupation  of  Yu- 
goslavia by,  37,  229;  relations  with, 
221;  Slovenians  in,  221;  support  of,  for 
Ustase,  35;  territorial  disputes  with, 
29-30,  33,  46;  trade  with,  159;  treaty 
with,  35;  as  threat  to  Croatia,  32;  in 
World  War  I,  28;  in  World  War  II,  231 
Ivan  of  Montenegro  (Prince),  18 
Ivo  Lola  Ribar  Machine  Industry,  272 
Izetbegovic,  Alija,  xxxvi,  xli 

Jaruzelski,  Wojciech,  242 

J  AT.  See  Yugoslav  Air  Transport 

Jehovah's  Witnesses,  107,  113 

Jelacic,  Josip,  15,  80 

Jesuits,  8,  13,  19 

Jews,  30,  107,  113;  elimination  by  Ustase, 
38;  massacre  by  Croats,  75;  population 
of,  71,  113;  slaughter  of,  by  Albanians 
and  Hungarians,  39 

Joseph  II,  8;  language  reform  under,  13 

Judaism,  31 

Jugotanker,  141 

Julian  Alps,  4,  63,  150 

Justinian,  6 

Kadijevic,  Veljko,  xxxi 
Kallay,  Benjamin,  24 
Kalman,  11 


Karadjordje  Petrovic,  19 
Karadjordjevic,  Aleksandar,  22 
Karadjordjevic,  Petar,  22 
Karadjordjevic  Dynasty,  19,  28,  108 
Karadzic,  Vuk,  21-22,  75 
Kardelj,  Eduard,  50,  174,  178,  179,  211 
Karlowitz,  Treaty  of  (1699),  13 
Khrushchev,  Nikita  S.,  49;  denounce- 
ment of  Stalin  by,  49;  relations  with 
Yugoslavia  repaired  by,  217,  232 
Khuen-Hedervary,  Karoly,  16 
Kingdom  of  the  Serbs,  Croats,  and  Slo- 
venes {see  also  Kingdom  of  Yugoslavia), 
xxv,  29,  229 
Kingdom  of  Yugoslavia  {see  also  Kingdom 
of  the  Serbs,  Croats,  and  Slovenes), 

xxv,  29-31,  75,  108;  dissolved,  43; 
Montenegrins  in,  77 

Knin,  207 

Konzul,  Stipan,  13 

Kopitar,  Jernej,  9 

Korosec,  Antun,  29,  82 

Kosovo,  xxiv,  43,  52,  212,  220;  agricul- 
ture in,  145;  Albanian  demonstrations 
in,  53,  97,  175,  223,  256-57,  278;  Al- 
banians in,  xxvii-xxviii,  76,  87,  204, 
212,  234;  autonomy  for,  177-78,  182, 
190;  clash  of,  with  Serbs,  88,  106;  coal 
mining  in,  148;  Croats  in,  78;  com- 
munist party  in,  196,  197,  200,  204, 
206;  disputes  over,  7;  economic  activi- 
ty in,  164;  economy  of,  xxvii,  200;  edu- 
cation in,  115;  employment  of  women 
in,  100;  ethnic  distribution  in,  71;  eth- 
nic strife  in,  xxvii-xxviii,  213,  277,  283; 
guest  workers  from,  105;  industry  in, 
141;  infant  mortality  rate  in,  68;  Italian 
occupation  of,  37;  literacy  rate,  115; 
mining  in,  149;  mortality  rate  in,  68; 
Muslim  Slavs  in,  83;  nationalism  in, 

xxvi,  xxvii;  peasant  culture  in,  91;  po- 
litical issues  in,  204-6;  political  unrest 
in,  130,  184;  population  in,  76;  popu- 
lation density  in,  69;  population  distri- 
bution in,  77;  population  growth  rate 
in,  68;  religion  in,  107,  110;  separatist 
movement  in,  203,  204,  214;  Serbian 
hegemony  in,  183,  203;  Serbianization 
campaign  in,  202,  204;  Serbs  in,  xxvii, 
74,  76,  205;  struggle  for  domination  of, 
76;  unemployment  in,  94,  139;  zadru- 
ga  in,  98 

Kosovo-Metojiha,  204 


334 


Index 


Kosovo  Polje,  Battle  of,  17,  23,  228 
Kotor,  Gulf  of,  12,  64 
Kragujevac,  40 

Krajgher  Commission,  163,  182,  266; 

report  of,  180-81 
Krajina  Serbian  Autonomous  Region, 

xxix,  xxx 
Krakow,  11 
Krsko,  149 

Kucan,  Milan,  xxvii,  xli,  201,  202 
Kuharic,  Franjo  Cardinal,  111 
Kulin,  Ban,  22-23 
kumstvo:  and  zadruga,  99-100 


Ladislas  of  Naples,  12 

landownership,  133 

land  reform,  44,  48,  125 

language  issues,  8,  31;  Croatian-Hungar- 
ian, 14-15 

languages  (see  also  under  individual  lan- 
guages), xxiii,  72-73;  in  armed  forces, 
259;  minority,  73;  official,  72 

Laszlo  I,  11 

law  codes,  189-90 

Law  on  Associated  Labor  (1976),  93,  130, 
131,  152,  179 

Law  on  Hostile  Propaganda,  277;  applied 
against  guest  workers,  277 

LCY.  See  League  of  Communists  of  Yu- 
goslavia 

League  of  Arab  States,  221 

League  of  Communists  of  Bosnia  and 
Hercegovina,  200 

League  of  Communists  of  Croatia,  193, 
197,  200,  208;  conflicts  in,  207 

League  of  Communists  of  Kosovo,  200, 
204,  206;  purges  in,  196,  197,  204 

League  of  Communists  of  Macedonia, 

xxxvii,  200 

League  of  Communists  of  Montenegro, 

xxxviii,  200,  208 

League  of  Communists  of  Serbia,  xxviii, 

182,  193,  197,  200,  203 
League  of  Communists  of  Slovenia  (see 

also  Party  of  Democratic  Renewal), 

193,  195,  197,  200,  201 
League  of  Communists  of  Vojvodina, 

197,  200 

League  of  Communists  of  Yugoslavia 
(LCY)  (see  also  Communist  Party  of  Yu- 
goslavia), 47,  49,  54,  131,  171,  179, 
181,  192-97;  adjustments  to,  193;  Cen- 


tral Committee,  195-96,  241;  centrali- 
zation in,  180;  under  Constitution,  192; 
debate  within,  182;  decentralization  of, 
176,  179,  197;  dismantled,  xxvi,  xxvii; 
erosion  of  power  of,  192;  Executive 
Bureau,  176;  foreign  policy  under,  216; 
founded,  193;  fragmentation  of,  172, 
194,  202;  membership,  93-94,  96,  192, 
196,  222,  241;  military  influence  in, 
227,  241;  power  of,  178,  192;  Presidi- 
um, 176,  179,  195;  procedures  of,  195; 
purges  in,  280;  reform  of,  194;  reform 
under,  193-94;  replaced,  xxiv;  separa- 
tion of,  from  government,  175,  177, 
184;  structure  of,  195;  trade  union  offi- 
cials in,  135 

League  of  Communists  of  Yugoslavia- 
Movement  for  Yugoslavia,  xxxii 

League  of  Journalists  of  Yugoslavia,  213 

League  of  Nations,  33,  35 

Leopold  II,  13 

Libya,  83,  112;  military  exchanges  with, 
275;  oil  supplied  by,  147,  156,  160; 
Swedish  arms  sales  to,  254,  274,  279 
life  expectancy,  68 
Linhart,  Anton,  9 
literacy  rate,  xxiii,  113-14,  115 
literature:  Macedonian,  86;  Serbian,  21 
Little  Entente,  33,  35;  destroyed  by  Ger- 
many, 36 
living  conditions,  48 
living  standards,  123,  163,  164 
Ljubljana,  8,  9,  10 
local  militia  forces,  283 
Loncar,  Budimir,  221 
London,  Treaty  of  (1913),  27 
London,  Treaty  of  (1915),  28,  29 
Long-Term  Economic  Stabilization  Pro- 
gram (1982),  163,  180,  182,  187,  266 
Luxembourg,  143 

MAAG.  See  United  States  Military  As- 
sistance Advisory  Group 

Macedonia,  xxiv,  25-26,  43;  agriculture 
in,  144,  145;  Albanian  demonstrations 
in,  53,  175;  Albanians  in,  xxxvii,  87, 
210;  ancient  peoples  of,  4,  7,  25;  birth 
rates  in,  69;  Bulgar  rule  of,  25-26,  37, 
234;  Byzantine  rule  of,  25-26;  commit- 
ment to  unity  in,  222;  communist  party 
in,  xxxvii,  200;  culture  of,  87;  demo- 
graphic age  in,  68;  demonstrations  in, 


335 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


xxxvii;  desire  of,  for  decentralization, 
175;  EC  recognition  requested  by,  xli; 
economic  activity  in,  164;  economic 
condition  of,  xxxvi-xxxvii;  economic 
reform  in,  51 ;  ethnic  distribution  in,  71 ; 
ethnic  tension  in,  xxxvii,  210;  Europe- 
an peacekeeping  forces  in,  26;  indepen- 
dence declared  by,  xxxv;  industry  in, 
140;  infant  mortality  rate  in,  68;  lega- 
cy of  Ottoman  rule  in,  61;  mining  in, 
149-50;  multiparty  elections  in,  xxxvii; 
nationalism  in,  xxxvii,  210;  nuclear 
power  station  in,  149;  opposition  to 
Serbia,  xxviii;  Ottoman  rule  of,  86;  Ot- 
tomans driven  from,  228;  peasant  cul- 
ture in,  91;  per  capita  earnings, 
xxxvi-xxxvii;  political  issues  in, 
210-11;  population  growth  rate  in,  68; 
purges  in,  54;  rebellion  in,  against 
Turkish  rule,  26;  religion  in,  86,  107; 
topography  of,  63;  unemployment  in, 
xxx vi;  zadruga  in,  98 

Macedonian  language,  72-73,  87;  edu- 
cation in,  115 

Macedonian  Orthodox  Church,  53,  87, 
107,  108,  110,  220 

Macedonians,  86-87;  armed  resistance 
by,  87;  in  Bulgaria,  86;  cultural  in- 
fluences on,  70;  ethnic  identity  of,  86; 
history  of,  70;  as  percentage  of  popu- 
lation, 70;  population  distribution  of, 
86;  in  YPA,  254 

Macek,  Vlatko,  34,  35,  36,  38 

machine-building  industry,  140 

Magyarization,  13,  16;  of  Croats,  78,  80; 
of  Serbs,  21 

Magyar  language,  13,  15,  73;  education 
in,  115 

Maribor,  8 

market  economy,  184 

market  reform:  resistance  to,  181 

market  socialism,  50,  129;  market  system, 
133 

Markovic,  Ante,  207,  219;  criticism  of, 
183-84;  economic  reform  plans  of,  123, 
158,  223;  resignation  of,  xxxix;  strikes 
as  threat  to,  182;  vote  of  no  confidence 
against,  xxxix 

materiel,  military:  from  Britain,  250,  267; 
from  Czechoslovakia,  246,  267,  269; 
from  France,  267,  269;  from  Germa- 
ny, 248,  250,  267;  from  Italy,  248,  267; 
obsolete,   266;   from  Poland,  269; 


procurement,  266,  267-69,  270-71; 
from  Romania,  244,  269;  from  Soviet 
Union,  244,  245,  246-47,  250,  269; 
from  Sweden,  246,  269,  272;  from 
Switzerland,  246,  269;  types  of, 
244-45;  from  United  States,  244,  246, 
250,  267;  from  West  Germany,  269 
materiel,  military,  domestically  produced, 
249,  266,  269-72,  269-72;  armored 
combat  vehicle,  271;  cooperation  agree- 
ments for,  269,  272;  fighter  aircraft, 
271;  helicopters,  272;  license  agree- 
ments for,  271-72;  obstacles  in,  270;  for 
sale,  270;  as  source  of  hard  currency, 
270 

Matica  Hrvatska,  53-54,  176,  207 

May  3  Shipyard,  141 

media,  213-15;  censorship  of,  214-15; 
criticism  in,  213;  information  allowed 
in,  213;  law  regarding,  213;  political 
sponsorship  of,  214;  self-management 
of,  214 

Mediterranean  Sea,  221 

merchant  marine,  151 

Mesic,  Stipe,  xxxix 

metallurgy  industry,  140,  141;  exports  by, 
141 

Metal  Semifinished  Products  Industry, 
141 

Methodist  Church,  107 

Middle  East:  arms  sales  in,  274;  military 
exchanges  with,  275;  policy  toward,  220 

migration:  of  peasants  to  cities,  xxiii,  90 

Mihajlov,  Mihajlo,  211 

Mihajlovic,  Draza,  39,  40,  229,  280;  ex- 
ecution of,  44 

Mikulic,  Branko,  182,  183 

military  budget,  xxxii,  xxxix,  266-67; 
cuts,  266;  increases,  267;  as  percentage 
of  GNP,  232,  267;  as  proportion  of 
government  expenditures,  267 

military  dictatorship:  possibility  of, 
242-43 

military  doctrine  {see  also  Total  National 
Defense),  235-36 

military  education,  259-61;  higher  acade- 
mies, 260-61;  higher  schools,  260; 
premilitary  drills,  259 

Military  Frontier  Province,  12 

military  life,  261-62;  average  workweek, 
261;  benefits,  262;  living  conditions, 
261 ;  for  officers,  262;  right  to  complain, 
261-62 


336 


Index 


military  prosecutor,  279 

military  spending:  and  economic  crisis, 
266;  decrease  in,  xxxii 

military  strategy  and  tactics,  236-37 

military  training,  259-61;  advanced,  260; 
basic,  260;  economic  constraints  on, 
260;  for  reservists,  261;  specialist,  260; 
technical,  260;  in  United  States,  268 

Milosevic,  Slobodan,  xxvi,  xxviii,  xxx,  xl, 
197,  203,  204,  206;  criticism  of,  xxix, 
213;  government  of,  214;  Serbian 
demonstrations  against,  xxix-xxx 

mining,  144,  149 

Mladina,  214 

modernization,  89-90;  of  agriculture,  91; 
peasants  and,  89 

Mohacs,  Battle  of,  12,  14 

Molve  gas  field,  147 

Montenegrins,  53,  76-78;  cultural  values 
of,  77;  cultural  influences  on,  70;  dis- 
tribution of,  76-77;  ethnicity  of,  77; 
families  of,  77;  in  leadership  positions, 
77-78;  history,  6-7,  70;  and  Ottoman 
Turks,  77;  as  percentage  of  population, 
70;  political  divisions  among,  77;  sub- 
versive activities  of,  281;  in  YPA,  254 

Montenegrin  Uprising,  xxxviii 

Montenegro,  xxiv,  xxvii,  16-22,  27,  43, 
64,  182,  189;  Albanians  in,  87;  anti- 
Albanian  sentiment  in,  208;  birth  rates 
in,  69;  climate  of,  64-67;  commitment 
to  unity  in,  222;  communist  party  in, 
xxxviii,  200,  208;  Croats  in,  78;  demo- 
graphic age  in,  68;  economic  reform  in, 
51,  52;  ethnic  distribution  in,  xxxvi,  71; 
guest  workers  from,  105;  industry  in, 
78,  140;  Italian  occupation  of,  37;  in 
Kingdom  of  the  Serbs,  Croats,  and  Slo- 
venes, 29;  multiparty  elections  in, 
xxxvii-xxxviii;  Muslim  Slavs  in,  83; 
nuclear  power  station  in,  149;  opposi- 
tion of,  to  Turks,  18;  political  conser- 
vatism in,  50,  52,  208;  political  issues 
in,  208;  population  of,  76-77;  progres- 
sive politics  in,  208;  religion  in,  107; 
Russian  ties  with,  19;  State  Presiden- 
cy elections  in,  187;  support  of,  for  Ser- 
bia, 203-4;  in  World  War  I,  28;  zadruga 
in,  98 

Morava  River,  150 

mortality  rate,  68,  116,  117;  causes  of 

death,  116,  117;  infant,  68 
Mostar,  24 


mountains,  63-64;  composition  of,  63 

mountain  troops,  265 

multiparty  elections,  xxvii,  xxxvi,  xxxviii, 

201-2,  207-8,  223 
Muslims:  massacre  of,  18;  nationalism, 

53 

Muslim  Slavs,  82-86,  107;  Albanians  as, 
112;  in  Bosnia  and  Hercegovina,  82, 
112,  210;  cultural  influences  on,  70; 
education  of  women,  113;  history  of, 
70,  83;  in  Kosovo,  112;  kumstvo  among, 
99;  in  Macedonia,  112;  origins  of,  83; 
as  percentage  of  population,  70;  in  Ser- 
bia, 112;  in  YPA,  254 

Mussolini,  Benito,  35 


Nagodba,  15,  16 
Nagy,  Imre,  49 
Napoleon,  9,  14 

Nasser,  Gamal  Abdul,  50,  216,  220 
National  Bank  of  Yugoslavia,  xxxiii,  137, 

162,  166 
National  Council,  29 
National  Defense,  Secretariat  for,  xxx, 
239,  259;  organization  of,  239-40;  su- 
pervisory duties  of,  239-40 
National  Defense  Law  (1969),  235 
nationalism,  xxvi,  54,  101,  227-28 
nationalist  conflict,  3-4;  and  government 

position,  175 
nationalist  movements,  253;  YPA  sup- 
pression of,  256-57;  violence  used  by, 
278 

nationalities  {see  also  under  individual  ethnic 
groups),  195;  defined,  70 

nationalization:  of  industry,  125;  of  na- 
tional resources,  125 

National  Liberation  War  of  1941-45  {see 
also  World  War  II),  228 

national  security:  precautions  against 
Soviet  invasion,  53,  244 

national  unity,  3,  179;  Tito  as  source  of, 
171 

nations  {see  also  under  individual  ethnic 
groups),  70,  73-90;  defined,  70 

NATO.  See  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Or- 
ganization 

natural  gas:  exploration,  140;  production, 
147 

navy,  248-50;  air  force  support  for,  246, 
247,  248;  conscripts  in,  248;  craft  oper- 
ated by,  248-50;  domestic  production 


337 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


of  craft  by,  249;  insignia,  263;  ranks, 
262-63;  sailors  in,  248;  support  of  army 
operations  by,  260;  surface  combatants 
of,  248;  uniforms,  263,  265 

Nazis,  228;  Cetnici  collaboration  with, 
40;  defeat  of,  42 

NDH.  See  Independent  State  of  Croatia 

Nedic,  Milan,  39 

Nehru,  Jawaharlal,  50,  216 

Nemanja  Dynasty,  17 

Neretva  River,  64;  hydroelectric  power 
on,  148 

Netherlands:  exports  to,  143 

New  Class,  The  (Djilas),  49 

Nis,  5 

Nis  Electronics  Industry,  160 
Njegos  Dynasty,  29 
Nkrumah,  Kwame,  216 
Nonaligned  Movement,   54-56;  1979 

Conference  of,  56,  123,  232;  arms  sales 

in,  274;  change  in  principles  of,  217; 

founding  principles  of,  216;  role  in, 

215,  217 

nonalignment,  49-50,  216-17;  declared, 

216;  end  of,  xli 
Normans,  11 

North  Africa:  arms  sales  in,  274;  military 
exchanges  with,  275 

North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization 
(NATO),  47,  221,  233,  274;  possibili- 
ty of  war  with  Warsaw  Pact,  235 

north- south  split,  61 

Norway:  exports  to,  141 

Novi  Pazar,  21 


Obradovic,  Dositej,  21-22,  75 
Obrenovic,  Aleksandar,  22 
Obrenovic,  Mihajlo,  21 
Obrenovic,  Milan,  21-22 
Obrenovic,  Milos,  19-20 
Obrenovic  Dynasty,  19-20 
Octavian,  5 

officers,  military:  benefits,  262;  commis- 
sioned, 258;  education,  260-61;  insig- 
nia for,  262-63;  party  membership 
necessary  for,  241;  pay,  262;  promo- 
tions, 262;  service  obligation  for,  260; 
uniforms  for,  265 

Ohrid,  Lake,  4 

oil:  exploration,  140,  147;  as  influence  on 
foreign  trade,  155,  220;  need  for,  83, 
112,  217;  price  increase,  131,  139; 


processing,  143,  146;  suppliers  of,  147, 
59 

opstine,  71 
Ostrogoths,  6 

Otranto,  Strait  of,  234,  248 
Otto  I,  7 

Ottoman  Empire,  xxix,  7,  12,  17,  19,  24, 
25,  27,  228;  conversion  to  Islam  under, 
112;  legacy  of,  61 ;  occupation  of  Alba- 
nia by,  87;  occupation  of  Bosnia  and 
Hercegovina  by,  78,  83;  occupation  of 
Serbia  by,  17,  18,  19,  75,  76;  occupa- 
tion of  Slavonia  by,  78 

Palestine  Liberation  Organization  (PLO): 

support  for,  216,  220-21 
Pannonian  Basin,  147 
Pannonian  Plains,  64,  144 
pan-Slavism,  10 
Paraga,  Dobroslav,  219 
Paris,  8 

Paris  Peace  Conference,  29 

parties,  local,  xxvii,  196-97 

Partisans,  37,  39,  199,  239;  Allied  sup- 
port for,  41 ;  execution  of  suspected  col- 
laborators, 44,  62;  membership  role  in 
career  success,  62,  96,  173;  military  as- 
sistance to,  231;  military  campaigns  of, 
40-41;  Montenegrins  in,  77;  naval 
operations  of,  248;  rivalry  of,  with  Cet- 
nici, 40,  230;  Stalin's  objections  to,  45; 
uprisings  by,  40 

Party  Congress,  194;  Fifth,  46;  Four- 
teenth, 194;  goals  of,  194,  195;  Sixth, 
47,  173,  193;  Tenth,  54;  Thirteenth, 
182,  183,  241;  Twelfth,  180,  182 

Party  of  Democratic  Renewal  {see  also 
League  of  Communists  of  Slovenia), 
201 

Pasic,  Najdan,  182,  193 

Pasic,  Nikola,  28,  31,  32 

Pavelic,  Ante,  34,  38,  39 

Pavle  (Prince),  35,  36,  37 

Peasant  Party  (Croatian),  29,  31,  43;  boy- 
cott of  Federal  Assembly,  31 

peasants:  Croatian,  78-80;  demograph- 
ic age  of,  90;  employment  of,  92,  123; 
farms  of,  90;  under  German  occupa- 
tion, 124;  as  guest  workers,  92;  living 
conditions  of,  90-91;  migration  to 
cities,  90,  92,  99,  102,  139;  as  party 
members,  95-96,  196;  pensions  for,  90; 


338 


Index 


population  of,  90;  traditional  culture 
among,  91-92 
pensioners,  101-2;  and  demographic  ag- 
ing, 102;  social  services  for,  102 
Pentecostal  Church  of  Christ,  107 
People's  Front  {see  also  Socialist  Alliance 
of  Working  People  of  Yugoslavia),  43, 
47,  197 

People's  Liberation  Army  and  Partisan 
Detachments  of  Yugoslavia.  See  Par- 
tisans 

People's  Liberation  Front,  43 
People's  Militia,  282,  283 
Petar  I  Njegos,  19 

Petar  II  Njegos,  21,  35,  37,  41,  77;  sur- 
render of  power  to  regency,  42 

Petroleum  Industry  of  Zagreb,  143 

Petrovic,  Danilo  I  of  Njegos,  18 

Philip  II,  4 

Pius  XII  (Pope),  45 

Planinc,  Milka,  180 

PLO.  See  Palestine  Liberation  Organi- 
zation 

pluralism,  179 

Poland,  10;  cooperation  agreements  for 
producing  materiel,  269;  exports  to, 
143;  trade  relations  with,  159 

Poles,  30 

political  issues,  222 

political  prisoners,  212 

political  problems,  62-63 

political  reform,  xxxiv-xxxv,  171,  195 

political  structure:  armed  forces  influence 
on,  241-42;  development  from  below, 
171;  federal,  172;  stages  in,  171;  statu- 
tory autonomy  in,  171 

politics:  in  the  1920s,  31-32 

Politika,  214 

pollution,  67 

population,  67-69;  average  age  of,  68; 

demographic  aging  of,  68;  density,  67, 

69;   ethnic  distribution  in,  70-71; 

growth,  68;  in  Kosovo,  69;  in  1948,  67; 

in  1981,  67;  in  1987,  67 
Populist  Party,  82 
pornography,  101 
ports,  151 
Postojna  Gate,  64 
Pozderac,  Hamdija,  209 
Praxis:  polemic  in,  211;  repression  of,  211 
Praxis  circle,  52,  211 
Preseren,  France,  9,  82 
Presidium,  176,  179,  189,  195,  196;  Ex- 


ecutive Bureau  of,  193;  membership, 
195;  nationalities  apportioned  in,  195; 
rotation  in,  xxxv,  179,  195 

Prevlaka,  149 

price  controls,  135 

pricing,  135 

Princip,  Gavrilo,  27 

prisons,  280 

Pristina,  University  of,  277 

private  enterprise:  policy  toward,  132-33; 

restrictions  on,  94;  workers  employed 

in,  94 

prosecutors,  federal,  190 
Protestant  Reformation,  8,  13,  113 
Protestants,  31,  107,  113 
Provisional  Assembly,  42 
public  health,  68-69 
purges,  54,  176-77,  196,  197,  203 


Radic,  Stjepan,  31;  assassination  of,  32 
Radical  Party  (Serbian),  31,  43 
Radio  Koper,  152 
Radovan,  12 
railroads,  150-51 
Ramet,  Pedro,  200 

Rankovic,  Aleksandar,  xxvi,  52,  88;  in- 
trigues of,  280-81;  opposition  to  eco- 
nomic reform,  175;  purged,  175,  193, 
204,  280-81;  Serbianization  campaign, 
202 

Raska,  17,  23 

recession,  world,  in  the  1970s,  155 
Red  Army,  45,  231 

Red  Banner  automotive  plants,  141,  160 

Red  Guards,  39 

reform,  in  the  1960s,  50-53 

regency,  for  Petar  II,  35-36 

regional  disparities,  164-65;  economic, 

163;  industrial,  164-65 
reign  of  terror,  37 

religion  {see  also  under  individual  sects),  12, 
30-31,  106-13;  church-state  relations, 
107;  and  Croatian  culture,  13;  decline 
of  belief  in,  108;  demography  of,  107-8; 
distribution  of,  107-8;  as  divisive  fac- 
tor, 106;  forced  conversions,  106;  free- 
dom of,  108;  relaxation  of  restrictions 
on,  48;  restrictions  on,  44-45;  and 
secularization,  44-45,  108 

republic  assemblies:  chambers  in,  191 

retirees,  90 

retirement,  102 


339 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


revolutions  of  1848,  9,  15,  21 
Rhodope  Massif,  63 
Rijeka,  29 
roads,  150 

Roman  Catholic  Church,  6,  30,  35,  107, 
110-11;  Albanians  in,  87;  collaboration 
by,  with  fascists,  38-39,  111;  forced 
conversion  in,  106;  involvement  of, 
with  Ustase,  39;  membership,  111;  op- 
position of,  to  communist  government, 
44;  preservation  of  Croatian  cultural 
heritage  in,  78;  relations  of,  with 
government,  111;  religious  resurgence 
in,  83,  111;  in  Slovenia,  82;  structure 
of,  111 

Roman  Empire:  control  of  Balkan  Penin- 
sula by,  5;  culture  of,  5,  11;  division 
of,  5,  6;  legacy  of,  5;  religion  of,  5 

Romania,  27,  33,  229,  231;  in  Balkan  En- 
tente, 34,  229;  cooperation  agreements 
for  producing  materiel,  269;  Croats  in, 
78;  materiel  from,  144;  relations  with, 
234 

Romanian  language,  73;  education  in, 
115 

Romanian  Orthodox  Church,  108 
Romanians,  30 
Roman-Macedonian  wars,  5 
Romany  language,  73 
rotation  of  office,  xxxv,  174,  179,  180, 

187,  195;  nationalities  balanced  by,  185 
royal  dictatorship,  33-34;  declaration  of, 

32;  popular  opinion  of,  33-34 
Rupel,  Dimitrij,  xl 

Russia  (see  also  Soviet  Union):  involve- 
ment of,  in  Balkans,  19;  in  World  War 
I,  28,  28 

Russian  language:  education  in,  115 
Russians,  as  minority,  30 
Russo-Turkish  War  (1878),  25 
Ruthenian  language,  73 
Ruthenians,  as  minority,  30 


Sabor,  11,  12,  13,  15,  16,  36 
St.  Sava  Nemanja,  17,  18,  108 
St.  Vitus  Day.  See  Vidovdan 
Salonika,  28 

San  Stefano,  Treaty  of  (1878),  21,  25-26 
Sarajevo,  27;  security  for  1984  Winter 

Olympics  in,  282 
Sarajevo-Ploce  rail  line,  150 


Sarmatians,  10,  16 
Saudi  Arabia,  112 
Sava  River,  67 

SAWPY.  See  Socialist  Alliance  of  Work- 
ing People  of  Yugoslavia 

secretariats,  federal  (see  under  specific  func- 
tions, e.g.,  Finance,  Federal  Secretariat  for) 

secret  police  (see  also  Directorate  for  State 
Security):  dismantled,  xxvi;  nationalists 
pursued  by,  278;  purged,  52;  under 
Rankovic,  52;  subversive  elements  neu- 
tralized by,  282 

self-managed  enterprises,  179;  directors 
in,  93;  management  of,  93;  television, 
215 

separatism,  227-28 

Serbia,  xxiii,  xxiv,  xxvii,  16-22,  27,  92; 
agriculture  in,  145;  Albanians  in,  87; 
ancient  peoples  of,  4;  Austrian  domi- 
nation of,  19;  in  Balkan  wars,  228; 
birth  rates  in,  69;  Bulgarian  occupation 
of,  37;  Bulgarian  relations  with,  22; 
centralization  in,  172;  coal  mining  in, 
147;  commitment  to  unity  in,  222; 
communist  party  in,  xxviii,  182,  193, 
197,  200,  203;  competition  of,  for 
Dalmatia,  12;  Croats  in,  78;  demo- 
graphic age  in,  68;  desire  for  centrali- 
zation, 175-76,  180,  201;  division  of, 
17;  domination  of  Balkans  by,  17;  eco- 
nomic activity  in,  164;  economic  and 
political  questions  in,  xl-xli;  economic 
reform  in,  51,  52;  ethnic  distribution 
in,  71;  German  occupation  of,  37-38; 
guest  workers  from,  105,  106;  indus- 
try in,  141,  143;  intellectual  dissent  in, 
212,213;  military  deployment  in,  244; 
mining  in,  149;  Muslim  Slavs  in,  83; 
nationalist  revival,  76;  nuclear  power 
station  in,  149;  opposition  to  disband- 
ing confederation,  xxviii-xxix;  opposi- 
tion to  economic  reform,  xxxiii; 
opposition  to,  xxviii;  political  conser- 
vatism in,  50,  52;  political  culture,  223; 
political  issues  in,  202-4;  popularity  of 
military  in,  253;  population  distribution 
in,  77;  purges  in,  54;  religion  in,  107, 
108;  resistance  to  economic  reform, 
167;  role  in  military,  227;  topography 
of,  63;  Turkish  occupation  of,  17,  75, 
76;  as  Turkish  principality,  19-20;  in 
World  War  I,  28;  in  World  War  II,  40; 
zadruga  in,  98 


340 


Index 


Serbian  Academy  of  Sciences,  97,  182, 
194 

Serbian- Albanian  conflict,  xxviii,  32,  205 
Serbian-Croatian  conflict,  xxix,  xxx-xxxi, 
xxxviii,  xl,  xli;  Bosnia  and  Hercegovi- 
na  as  point  of  contention  in,  xxxvi; 
cease-fires,  xxxi,  xxxii,  xxxix;  lack  of 
support  for,  xli;  YPA  intervention  in, 
xxxii 

Serbian-Croatian  rivalry,  30,  31,  76,  223; 
attempts  to  end,  36;  in  the  Federal  As- 
sembly, 32,  175;  in  World  War  II, 
xxiv,  xxv 

Serbian  hegemony,  xxvi-xxvii,  xxviii, 
61-62,  202;  attempts  to  limit,  75;  Croa- 
tian reaction  to,  75,  76,  80;  fears  of 
resurgence  of,  76;  in  Kosovo,  203 
Serbian  language:  literature  in,  17,  75 
Serbian-Macedonian  conflict,  xxviii 
Serbian  Orthodox  Church,  17,  106,  107, 
108;  activities  of,  110;  autonomy  of,  19; 
culture  preserved  in,  75,  76;  Russian 
ties  with,  19;  schools  established  by,  86; 
structure  of,  110 
Serbian- Slovenian  conflict,  203-4,  223 
Serbo-Croatian  language,  53,  72,  77;  al- 
phabets in,  72;  education  conducted  in, 
114,  115;  use  of,  in  armed  forces,  259 
Serbs,  6,  7,  16-22,  53,  74-76;  in  Bosnia 
and  Hercegovina,  74,  76,  210;  clash  of, 
with  Kosovo  Albanians,  xxvii,  88,  106; 
conversion  of,  to  Christianity,  16;  in 
Croatia,  74,  76,  176;  cultural  influences 
on,  70;  culture  of,  75;  demographic  dis- 
tribution of,  74-75;  demonstrations 
against  Milosevic,  xxix-xxx;  elimina- 
tion by  Ustase,  38;  ethnic  outlook  of, 
74;  families  of,  75;  hegemony  of,  in 
Kosovo  and  Vojvodina,  183,  190;  his- 
tory of,  6,  70;  Macedonians  as,  86; 
massacred  by  Croats,  75;  as  members 
of  intelligentsia,  95;  origins  of,  16;  as 
percentage  of  population,  70,  74;  rebel- 
lion of,  against  Turks,  18,  19;  slaugh- 
ter of,  by  Albanians  and  Hungarians, 
39;  stereotype  of,  73;  in  World  War  I, 
28 

serfdom,  abolition  in  Austrian  Empire,  9, 
15,  80 

Seventh-Day  Adventist  Church,  107,  113 
shipbuilding,  141;  exports  by  shipbuild- 
ing industry,  141 
ships,  151 


Simovic,  Dusan,  37,  229 
Singidunum  [see  also  Belgrade),  6 
Sirmium  (see  also  Sremska  Mitrovica),  6 
Skopje,  25,  87 

Skupstina.  See  Federal  Assembly 
Slavonia,  6,  12,  13,  15;  under  Hungary, 
15 

Slavs,  6,  11 

Slovak  language,  73;  education  in,  115 
Slovaks,  30 

Slovenes,  7-10,  80-82;  cultural  influences 
on,  70;  culture  of,  81;  dominance  of, 
by  Austria,  9,  81;  history  of,  6,  7,  70; 
intellectuals,  97;  literacy  rate,  113-14; 
as  minority  in  Italy,  221;  as  percentage 
of  population,  70;  persecution  of,  275; 
population,  80;  rise  of  nationalism 
among,  8-9;  in  YPA,  254,  256;  in 
World  War  I,  28 

Slovenia,  xxiii,  xxiv,  11,  28,  205;  agricul- 
ture in,  144;  ancient  peoples  of,  4;  arms 
sales  as  an  ethical  issue  in,  274;  auton- 
omy of,  180;  birth  rates  in,  69;  Roman 
Catholic  Church  in,  82;  cease-fire  in, 
xxx;  commitment  to  unity  in,  222; 
communist  party  in,  193,  195,  197, 
200,  201;  Counterreformation  in,  113; 
criticism  of  YPA  in,  253-54;  Croats  in, 
78;  culture  of,  61;  demographic  age  in, 
68;  demonstrations  in,  176,  212;  desire 
for  decentralization,  175;  economic  ac- 
tivity in,  164;  economic  and  political 
questions  in,  xl;  economic  system  of, 
82;  economy,  200;  EEC  membership 
for,  165,  216;  elections  to  State 
Presidency,  187;  employment,  82;  em- 
ployment of  women  in,  100;  ethnic  dis- 
tribution in,  71;  foreign  exchange  in, 
162;  German  annexation  of,  37-38, 
124;  guest  workers  from,  105,  106; 
housing  in,  103;  Hungarian  occupation 
of,  37;  industry  in,  140,  141;  infant 
mortality  rate  in,  68;  Italian  occupation 
of,  37;  liberal  politics  in,  201;  literacy 
rate,  115;  mining  in,  149,  150;  mortal- 
ity rate  in,  68;  multiparty  elections  in, 
202,  223;  noncommunist  government 
of,  xxvii;  nuclear  power  station  in,  149; 
opposition  of,  to  economic  reform, 
xxxiii;  opposition  to  Serbian  hegemo- 
ny, 202;  political  culture,  223;  politi- 
cal issues  in,  200-2;  political  liberalism 
in,  50;  purges  in,  54;  religion  in,  107, 


341 


Yugoslavia:  A  Country  Study 


108;  secession  of,  xxvi,  xxx,  xxxiv, 
xxxix,  201-2,  222;  Socialist  Alliance  of 
Working  People  of  Slovenia,  198,  214; 
television  in,  215;  topography  of,  63; 
trade  unions  in,  94;  unemployment  in, 
94,  138;  Western  influence  on,  200; 
Youth  League  of  Slovenia,  199;  youth 
publications  in,  101;  YPA  maneuvers 
in,  257;  YPA  occupation,  xxx 

Slovenian  language,  72,  81;  development 
of  written,  8,  9,  82;  education  in,  115; 
use  of,  10 

Slovenian  Social  Democratic  Alliance, 
202 

Smederjevo,  18 

Social  Accounting  Service,  137 

social  compacts,  132,  134-35;  effect  of, 
on  market  system,  133 

social  groups  (see  also  under  individual 
groups):  intelligentsia,  94-97;  peasants, 
89-92;  workers,  92-94 

Socialist  Alliance  of  Working  People  of 
Slovenia,  198,  214 

Socialist  Alliance  of  Working  People  of 
Yugoslavia  (SAWPY)  (see  also  People's 
Front),  47,  197-98,  209;  conference, 
198;  foreign  policy  input,  216;  func- 
tions of,  197-98;  membership,  197, 
198;  purpose  of,  197;  in  the  republics, 
198;  structure  of,  198 

Socialist  Federal  Republic  of  Yugoslavia: 
established,  43 

socialist  realism,  48 

socialist  self-management,  xxiii,  3,  47-49, 
52,  54,  92-93,  123,  127,  131-32,  175, 
181,  199,  222;  criticism  of,  101;  in 
defense  production,  270;  expanded,  50; 
in  Federal  Assembly,  177;  grass-roots 
political  power,  191;  of  health  care, 
117-18;  implementation  of,  47;  insti- 
tutions employing,  132;  market  econ- 
omy incorporated  into,  134;  of  media, 
214;  organization  of,  47;  organization 
of  enterprises  under,  131;  pluralism  in, 
179;  purpose  of,  131;  reorientation  of, 
163;  of  social  welfare,  118;  system  of 
agreements,  130-31,  132,  179;  trade 
unions  under,  198-99;  workers'  coun- 
cils, 131 
social  self-protection,  282 
Sokolovic,  Mehmed  Pasha,  18 
Southern  Adriatic  I  oil  well,  147 
South   Slav   Academy   of  Arts  and 


Sciences,  16 
South  Slavs  (see  also  under  individual  ethnic 

groups),  xxiii,  228;  history  of,  69-70 
South  Slav  union,  xxv,  9,  10,  14,  15,  16, 

21,  27,  69;  formation  of,  28-29 
Soviet  alliance:  economic  blockade  by,  46, 

232 

Soviet  Union  (see  also  Russia),  35,  37,  193, 
216;  cooperation  agreements  for 
producing  materiel,  272;  economic 
sanctions  threatened  by,  xxxiv;  exports 
to,  141,  143,  156,  157;  imports  from, 
156,  157;  invasion  of  Afghanistan,  56, 
218;  materiel  from,  244,  245,  246-47, 
248,  250,  268;  materiel  licensing  agree- 
ments, 268-69,  271;  military  assistance 
from,  231;  military  exchanges,  274, 
275;  military  training  in,  261;  natural 
gas  supplied  by,  147;  oil  supplied  by, 
147,  156,  159;  as  supplier  of  agricul- 
tural products,  146;  Tito's  career  in, 
39;  trade  with,  44,  126,  159;  threat  of 
intervention  by,  218;  withdrawal  of  ad- 
visers by,  45,  232;  in  World  War  II, 
40,  230 

Soviet-Yugoslav  military  relations, 
231-32,  272-73,  274 

Soviet- Yugoslav  relations,  218;  rap- 
prochement, 49-50;  rift  in,  45-47,  52, 
232,  267-68,  280;  response  of  West  to 
rift,  46-47 

Spain,  272 

Sporazum,  36 

Sremska  Mitrovica,  6 

Stalin,  Joseph  V.,  40,  124,  231;  Khru- 
shchev's denouncement  of,  49;  ob- 
jections of,  to  Partisans,  45;  purge  of 
Yugoslav  communists  by,  173 

Stalingrad,  Battle  of,  230 

Stalinist  economics,  124-25 

Stambolic,  Ivan,  203 

Stara  Gradiska,  280 

Starcevic,  Ante,  16 

State  Presidency,  xxix,  176,  177,  179, 
187-89,  208,  209,  211;  armed  forces 
command  by,  239,  282;  councils  in, 
187;  criticism  of,  213;  elections  to,  187; 
foreign  policy  conducted  by,  216; 
formed,  187;  functions  of,  187-89;  ju- 
dicial appointments,  279;  members  of, 
187;  multiparty  elections  for,  223;  ro- 
tation in,  xxxv,  180,  187;  separation 
from  party,  192 


342 


Index 


State  Security  Service,  281,  282 

Stefan  I  Nemanja,  17,  77 

Stefan  II  Nemanja,  17 

Stepinac,  Alojzije,  39,  44-45,  111,  280 

Stojadinovic,  Milan,  35;  fascist  proclivi- 
ties of,  36 

strikes:  causes  of,  135;  opposed  by  trade 
union  officials,  136;  as  political  protest, 
135;  to  protest  economic  reform,  182 

Strossmayer,  Josip,  16 

students,  101 

Styria,  8 

Subasic,  Ivan,  42,  43 

SUBNOR.  See  Federation  of  Associations 

of  Veterans  of  the  National  Liberation 

War,  199-200,  241 
suicide  rate,  116 
Sukarno,  216 

Supreme  Committee  for  Liberation  of 
Macedonia,  26 

Supreme  Court,  federal,  189,  190,  278-79 

Supreme  Military  Court,  279 

Sweden:  arms  sales  scandal,  254,  274, 
279;  cooperation  agreements  for 
producing  materiel,  269,  272;  exports 
to,  141;  materiel  from,  246;  relations 
with,  234 

Switzerland:  cooperation  agreements  for 
producing  materiel,  269,  272;  materiel 
from,  246;  relations  with,  234 

Syria,  160 


Tanjug,  214 
taxes,  xxxiv,  136 

TDF.  See  Territorial  Defense  Forces 
teachers,  114;  primary  school,  114 
telecommunications,    151-52;  radio, 

151-52;  television,  151-52,  215 
telephones,  91,  152 

Territorial  Defense  Forces  (TDF)  (see  also 
armed  forces;  Yugoslav  People's 
Army),  227,  235,  250-53,  259;  capa- 
bilities of,  236;  chain  of  command,  252; 
coordination  with  YPA,  236,  237;  cost 
of,  252;  funding  of,  250-52;  missions, 
252;  organization  of,  250-52;  purpose 
of,  250;  recruitment,  252-53;  structure 
of,  238;  tension  with  YPA,  240,  252; 
under  TND  doctrine,  237;  number  of 
troops,  250;  women  in,  258 

Theodosius,  6 


Third  World:  trade  with,  160 
threat  perception,  233-34;  of  Soviet  in- 
vasion, 233-34,  244 
Tiberius,  5 

Tito,  Josip  Broz,  3,  49,  80,  123,  172-73, 
187,  231;  career  of,  39-40,  172-73, 
173;  charisma  of,  171,  173;  control  of 
YPA  by,  241;  cult  of  personality,  54; 
elected  president  for  life,  178;  legacy  of, 
172;  modernization  under,  62;  national 
unity  under,  xxiv,  xxv;  political  system 
restructured  by,  xxv-xxvi,  171-72; 
purges  by,  176-77,  193;  reaction  to  na- 
tionalist movements,  54,  202;  relations 
with  Soviet  Union,  218;  role  in  post- 
war government,  42-43,  44;  rule  of,  62; 
secret  police  purged  by,  52;  support  for 
Dubcek,  53;  as  supreme  commander  of 
armed  forces,  239;  withdrawal  from  de- 
cision making,  178-79 

Tito  Mines,  147 

TND.  See  Total  National  Defense 

Tomislav,  11 

Topola  Foundry,  141 

Total  National  Defense  (TND)  doctrine, 
227,  235-36;  under  Constitution  of 
1974,  235;  design,  235;  implementation 
of,  232-33;  origin  of,  232-33;  provi- 
sions of,  235-36;  scenario  for,  235; 
TDF  under,  237,  250;  YPA  under,  237 

tourist  industry,  xxv,  161-62;  boom  in, 
150;  effect  of,  162;  hard  currency  from, 
128;  number  of  tourists,  161 

trade  unions,  94,  198-99;  membership  in, 
135,  199;  officials,  135;  party  influence 
in,  198;  role  of,  198-99 

transportation,  150-51;  deficiencies  in, 
150;  highway  construction,  150;  inter- 
national traffic,  150;  roads,  150 

Travnik,  24 

Trepca  Metallurgical  Combine,  141,  149 
trials:  criminal,  212;  political,  212 
Trieste,  29,  46 

Tripartite  Pact,  36-37,  40,  229 
Triple  Entente,  27-28 
Trubar,  Primoz,  8 
trucks,  150 

Truman,  Harry  S,  232 
Trumbic,  Ante,  28 

Tudjman,  Franjo,  xxvii,  xl,  xli,  80,  207 
Tunisia,  160 

Tupurkovski,  Vasil,  xxxvii,  184,  210-11 
Turkey,  27;  in  Balkan  Entente,  34,  216, 


343 


Published  Country  Studies 


(Area  Handbook  Series) 


550-65 

Afghanistan 

550-87 

Greece 

550-98 

Albania 

550-78 

Guatemala 

550-44 

Algeria 

550-174 

Guinea 

550-59 

Angola 

550-82 

Guyana  and  Belize 

550-73 

Argentina 

550-151 

Honduras 

550-169 

Australia 

550-165 

Hungary 

550-176 

Austria 

550-21 

India 

550-175 

Bangladesh 

550-154 

Indian  Ocean 

550-170 

Belgium 

550-39 

Indonesia 

550-66 

Bolivia 

550-68 

Iran 

550-20 

Brazil 

550-31 

Iraq 

550-168 

Bulgaria 

550-25 

Israel 

550-61 

Burma 

550-182 

Italy 

550-50 

Cambodia 

550-30 

Japan 

550-166 

Cameroon 

550-34 

Jordan 

550-159 

Chad 

550-56 

Kenya 

550-77 

Chile 

550-81 

Korea,  North 

550-60 

China 

550-41 

Korea,  South 

550-26 

Colombia 

550-58 

Laos 

550-33 

Commonwealth  Caribbean, 

550-24 

Lebanon 

Islands  of  the 

550-91 

Congo 

550-38 

Liberia 

550-90 

Costa  Rica 

550-85 

Libya 

550-69 

Cote  d'lvoire  (Ivory  Coast) 

550-172 

Malawi 

550-152 

Cuba 

550-45 

Malaysia 

550-22 

Cyprus 

550-161 

Mauritania 

550-158 

Czechoslovakia 

550-79 

Mexico 

550-36 

Dominican  Republic  and 

550-76 

Mongolia 

Haiti 

550-52 

Ecuador 

550-49 

Morocco 

550-43 

Egypt 

550-64 

Mozambique 

550-150 

El  Salvador 

550-35 

Nepal  and  Bhutan 

550-28 

Ethiopia 

550-88 

Nicaragua 

550-167 

Finland 

550-157 

Nigeria 

550-155 

Germany,  East 

550-94 

Oceania 

550-173 

Germany,  Fed.  Rep.  of 

550-48 

Pakistan 

550-153 

Ghana 

550-46 

Panama 

347 


550-156 

Paraguay 

550-53 

Thailand 

550-185 

Persian  Gulf  States 

550-89 

Tunisia 

550-42 

Peru 

550-80 

Turkey 

550-72 

Philippines 

550-74 

Uganda 

550-162 

Poland 

550-97 

Uruguay 

550-181 

Portugal 

550-71 

Venezuela 

550-160 

Romania 

550-32 

Vietnam 

550-37 

Rwanda  and  Burundi 

550-183 

Yemens,  The 

550-51 

Saudi  Arabia 

550-99 

Yugoslavia 

550-70 

Senegal 

550-67 

Zaire 

550-180 

Sierra  Leone 

550-75 

Zambia 

550-184 

Singapore 

550-171 

Zimbabwe 

550-86 

Somalia 

550-93 

South  Africa 

550-95 

Soviet  Union 

550-179 

Spain 

550-96 

Sri  Lanka 

550-27 

Sudan 

550-47 

Syria 

550-62 

Tanzania 

348 


PIN:  006950-000 


